DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
DAZZLE: …Wait. You're not a guy, guy? Oops!
DUSCLOPS used TOXIC!
{PLAYER} decided to completely ignore the GS BALL. Wow! It's just like the TV show!
The diary has been left open to a blank page. Read it from the beginning?
The slope is too steep for your BIKE to handle. Would you like to feed your BIKE a SANDWICH?
{PLAYER} found the TM11! It contained WATER GUN!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I was just on my way to visit my friend BILL. He and I go way back! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
{PLAYER} obtained a friendly BELLSPROUT!
Looking for SANDWICH ingredients? Don't worry! You don't have to go back for any. Look around and pay attention!
Oh? {PLAYER} has gathered together all the ingredients! After a silly minigame (which Celia shall not be programming)…
I was content with just a simple fade in-out for the Tera animation but my programmer Wiz1989 decided to go all out! It's very fun that we could port the whole thing from expansion!
{PLAYER} found a TM32! It contains BRICK BREAK.
The wild JIGGLYPUFF was using an ITEM! I thought those were banned!
In the Beta, the LASS that attacks you here would randomly teleport. I could never figure out why or how, so I just ignored it in the demo. Now she works much better. By the way! You can walk through the wall here! I'm sure the Celia's Stupid Romhack speedrunners will appreciate that.
CAITLYN: Ah, hello. Are you the new challenger? I wish to test your mettle myself. Would you like to battle?
He's glued to a tree.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Say, this spot on the ground is really nice! It makes me all warm and tingly! But never mind that. How about you take a rest?
WARDEN: The DMCA kidnapped my good friend, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER. He's somewhere in the SAFARI ZONE. If you can find him, he might know what they're looking for. Good luck. I'm sure you can save us!
Waa! The GHOSTS in here are so scary! It's okay, though. I found a new DOLL to keep me safe.
This guy's line was one I stole directly from an old quote by Chuggaaconroy in his FRLG LP! Sadly, 15 years later it's still true.
Your PSYDUCK PAIL is out of water…
The layering on these beach chairs was really obnoxious to get right. The way FRLG is set up, tiles that let you walk onto higher elevation also let you walk onto water. I had to do a lot of trickery to prevent you from becoming Jesus.
Here, why don't you take it? I got higher standards than this.
{PLAYER} exchanged the MACHO BRACE for another EEVEE!
The fact that you need to do the whole quest to get your TM Case and when you get the TM, it just appears with your normal items? Genius.
Wait, that's not right…
MT MOON Shortcut {DOWN_ARROW}
{PLAYER} obtained the MACHOKE!
Here lied the BERRY POWDER MAN. May his jest increase.
Ahaha! Excellent! A true test of my abilities! Now come here, you. Prepare to feel my shears!
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
Haha! Sucker!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hey, did you run into a shiny a minute ago? Wow, you must be lucky! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
The LASS attack here is brand new to this version! Mt Moon really needed a good punchline at the end of it. Plus, it helps set up the lasses coming up in the future.
Welcome Good Luck
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm hiding under this building for now. These DMCA people are scary! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
The secret switch inexplicably made the whole statue disappear.
Uh, hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. Hey, good job getting to the top of those stairs! I did it the old fashioned way by just collecting 70 Power Stars. It took me forever!
ERIK: Great, thank you!
The Ether hidden in this bush is supposed to be a subtle Fuck You. A running gag I originally wanted was for Ethers to be everywhere. Cuz, y'know, there's no potions. Sadly, the average player didn't really catch on, so I dropped it. This Ether is still here to signal “No, the key isn't here.” I guess it still works.
Oh, no! The POWER PLANT's broken!
This was the last route I made for the demo, and it shows. I wanted to show off all the dumb things I learned how to do: From the weather tiles to the Growlithe sign to pushing the bench, there's plenty of fun stuff here!
KANGASKHAN: Kan-GAH!
Yeah, you deserved that.
We are the BIRD CULTISTS. Our herald has been called! In the presence of the FLOAT STONE we are given peace and power.
Hrrrrm... This guy's on thin ice!
Grr… That was a dirty trick you pulled. That POKéMON violates copyright. You knew it was illegal. But no matter. We're not going to give up. You'll need to do better.
Something about this tree in particular feels... off.
Hey! You've already seen this cutscene. Would you like to skip it?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm just relaxing here in my cage. I love when people come to see me! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
The reason I stutter a bunch in the cutscene is because I worked rlly hard on all the different sprites, and wanted to be sure to use 'em!
Yawn… I'm always so sleepy. My friend sent me some MAIL, but he left his POKéMON with me. I'm not a trainer, so I'm not sure what to do with it. Here - why don't you take it?
RHYDON: Grraaah!
Let's see what the binoculars have to show…
An empty doorframe sits on the wall. It looks lonely.
Amazing! It's the fabled ALOLAN GROWLITHE!
Aww, no deal? C'mon, kid! You can trust me!
WEEZING by Raw Meat Arrow SEEL by Jogaklaa GYARADOS by Boba Tea SLOWBRO by 12345678910111213141 (how tf do you remember that name?)
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
Sorry, but this teleport pad is out of service. Come back next update!
I like birds
Ah, finally the power is back on! I've been waiting here before making the climb up. I wouldn't want to trip and fall! Ho! That'd be rather nasty indeed! Well, off I go. Meet you at the top?
The window looks directly into the side of a mountain. Perhaps this building wasn't very well thought-out.
Look, you gotta understand. If we suspect you of a crime, everything you own belongs to us.
{PLAYER} obtained the FARFETCH'D!
MASTER FoF: What do you call a shiny HOOPA? A Golden Temp-Hole! :D
Sick - Here's the plan: You give me some POKéMON, doesn't matter which. Then, I'll tell people that it's extremely rare and valuable. That way, we get high-value offers! When all's said and done, we'll get something awesome out of it! How about it?
A familiar painting of three lit bombs. Wanna jump face-first into it again?
REGIDRAGO: Draa-!
It was the GREEN-HARIED DANCER!
Hello, there! Could I ask for a bit of your time?
This line was ripped from Book of Mario 64! It's a google translate version of PM64, and it's a great time. (the discord server sucks tho)
I'm very good at programming.
The POWER PLANT's reactor is down. It seems the controller is broken. Would you like to attempt to turn it on?
I wonder what that poor sucker is thinking now…
DAD!{PAUSE 30} Hey, {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Don't you know I'm the LEADER of FUSHCIA GYM? My INVISIBLE WALLS are strong! Well, never mind that. How about we battle?{PLAY_BGM}{MUS_ENCOUNTER_GYM_LEADER}
DAD: You're right! I sure would!
This game's a shitload of fuck!
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
Those trees that grew in front of BROCK's GYM were really annoying. I wonder if there's a way to begin clearing that area out…
Fun fact: I never playtested this puzzle to see how hard it was. Thankfully most people seem to be able to figure it out, but I was terrified that it would be too hard!
This slogan is in vanilla! …for some reason.
... ... You.
This guy is a joke that sadly doesn't actually land very well. He's supposed to be trying to be a POISON-type trainer, but he only plays the TCG. Because of that, he's very confused on which mons are ACTUALLY poison. In Gen 1, Poison types were shown as GRASS cards, so he has a Grass mon. Then in gen 4, Poison was shown as Psychic, so he has one of those. Finally, in gen 8 onwards, they're Dark, so he has one of those too. I wanted a way to make fun of Poison's history, so I'm kinda sad this joke isn't very clear.
{PLAYER} inserted the SPARE DOOR!
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator! Hey now, that was a little rude of you. The poor guy just wanted to relax… I get the feeling you're gonna be a leading cause of deforestation. Oh well! Anyway, you seem to be the type who loves to find secrets everywhere. Let me point you to another one…
A man inside is wiggling his finger.
(wait let's try again)
Ohhh… So THAT'S where the tower went.
{PLAYER} received the ODD EGG from the stranded deliveryman!
SENTRET: Bwaah!
Hiya! Welcome to the SAFARI ZONE. We, uh… We have some important guests in the park right now. I hope you don't mind them. Would you like to enter anyway?
SENTRET is walking!
The idea here is that someone kept shoving Surf HMs onto the boat and they kept breaking. Thus, they came to the conclusion that the boat sucks.
A sports game! Dad'll like that!
BRELOOM: Bre-Breee!
SHELLDER by Jogaklaa!
Rats! The door's been welded shut!
Ask the door a question?
OAK: Hey!
It looks like it's been sitting here for several weeks.
The power is off.
Losselle actually marked a turning point for my production: It was the first “Big” cutscene I ever worked on. It gave me the confidence and skill to go back and add stuff like the LASS on Route 3.
Okay but seriously. Dad is RIGHT THERE. Why can't we just heal with him?
{PLAYER} reunited the SESAME SEEDS!
You know the LIGHTHOUSE on the shore of ROUTE 15? Legends say that at the top rests a powerful DRAGON. I hope that someday I can meet him…
SLOWBRO: Bruuuuuuh!
Incidentally, I know it might seem like you can't backtrack. MT. MOON had a one-way ledge! But! I'm sure you'll find a way. You have all the tools you need. Anyway, best of luck! I believe in you!
Hey, wait!
CUBONE's MOTHER was a lovely volunteer at the school. She'd come in if MR. FUJI got sick. I'd be distraught if anything happened to her.
Hey! You did it! You really saved us from GIOVANNI! Nice going!
I'm wearing SHADES as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Peering into the sandcastle, you see dozens of small skeletons.
Jagged rocks line the wall.
SUSAN: Oh? Who are you? Yet another kid with a copyright- plagued story for us to take down?
I'm a sign!
{PLAYER} received HM05 from LT. SURGE.
CAITLYN: Hmph, to think that we'd find ourselves outsmarted by you. Carry on, TRAINER. The end is in sight.
There was a nifty TM on the ground over here. It looked useful, too! I made sure to snag it before anyone else noticed. Ha ha!
The steep slope is too much for your BIKE to handle…
This route is so fucking boring in vanilla. I had no clue what to do with it. I settled on “Let you ignore all of it.”
The “Look! To the left of this sign!” thing in vanilla was always so weird. The hidden item is… to the fucking left of it. Unless it means from the player character's POV, and you'd have to use spacial reasoning for it? Idk, it's fucky.
{PLAYER} pressed the switch!
THIS GUY is a manga-exclusive Pokemon! Red finds him early in the journey, but he runs away, never to be seen again! The voice clip is from the youtuber Reverend, who made a video about various Pokemon Cryptids!
MEOWTH: Meowth!
TRAINER TIPS! …
“Operating Nuclear Power Plants for Dummies free download”
Oh! Shoot, you're right. I guess I missed my cue. Here, take him. I guess I kinda ruined the bit…
Hey, have you gotten the FLASH HM yet? ...Oh, you haven't? I hear it's actually a very powerful move now. If you wanna keep yourself safe from it, you'll need protective glasses!
There's a sign on the door…
You wouldn't believe how hard it is to come up with convincing sounds for random Pokemon to make when writing dialouge for them.
Oh… That's okay, I understand.
The guy at the desk isn't selling COINS anymore… Guess you'll just have to scrounge around 'til you find some!
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
This guy's original line is “I saw your feat from the grass!” For my entire life, I thought it was a typo and this guy was just weird.
{PLAYER} found a POKé DOLL!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I was making my way through the maze but I think I took a wrong turn. Do you know the way out? Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Here, why don't you take it? I got higher standards than this.
JACKIE?: I eat sap.
Going through POKéMON TOWER was a real pain. It was like being in school again! Say, wasn't there something odd written in the other TRAINER SCHOOL?
Ah, The Pit. The most infamous part of the hack. Honestly I'm kinda surprised that people are so enamored by it. I guess it serves as a reality check that this is not a game to take very seriously.
DELIBIRD: Ca-craaaa!
DAD: There you are! Good luck on your adventure!
These doors are a bit fucky because the warp wall behavior is only in Emerald. I could port it in, but I'm lazy.
Here lies yet another run. CTRL + R to try again.
... Step away now, please.
ROUTE 11
VOLTORB by Lichen GLOOM by Jogaklaa
Oh! KENYA would like a haircut? L-like, all of it? Um, I don't think I'm up to the task. Sorry…
Aha! So you wish to leave the GYM?
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
Hey there, kid! Are you looking to get rich quick? Let me tell ya: SLOWPOKETAIL is the way to go. Here, let me start you out. I have a gift for you!
Oh wait, your deck's full… Make some room and then come back!
Looking for SANDWICH ingredients? Don't worry! You don't have to go back for any. Look around and pay attention!
I'm sorry, but this staircase is broken right now. We need some time to repair it.
I actually designed the level curve so that if you fought both LARRY's ZAPDOS and this guy, your rat would reach exactly level 20. If all things go well, his dialogue after the battle about the rat not evolving should blow your mind.
Oh, wow! I can see! Thanks so much, mister! Let's chat again after the show. There's something I wanna show you!
All right, totally understood. Have a nice day!
I came up with the whole Regi Crashed Into A Wall schtick like 8 hours before the game launched. I had to build this whole second room, add new tiles, add the Regi overworld sprite, etc hella fast.
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: The DMCA are after DRAGONITE. If we want to stop them, you'll need to find one somewhere. It won't be in the SAFARI ZONE. Good luck. I'm sure you can save us!
{PLAYER} removed the IRON CURTAIN. It's just like 1989!
{PLAYER} gave the TM32 to the imprisoned KANGASKHAN!
Fading music out during the scene where he pulls a gun at you was actually really tricky. The game does NOT like warping you while the music is faded out. So I had to create a distinct music track of pure silence to use, as opposed to just pausing the BGM.
Fwahahaha! So you've returned to my GYM! To earn the right to challenge me, navigate my maze to the end. You may only bring 3 POKéMON along. Do you wish to attempt the challenge again?
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
You wanna try to help this POKéMON? After all it's done?
So, uh... Are you gonna give me my HOUSE KEY?
It looks like he's having fun.
The DMCA is here on important business. There's infringement afoot! We won't rest until the violating POKéMON is apprehended!
TRAINER TIPS! Press start to save the game!
There's an easter egg if you miss when going to Oak's Lab. It's a small reference to an old RBY softlock.
Hey, is it just me or are POTIONS really hard to find as of late? That's okay, though. I know a secret! Just look for darker spots on the ground. You'll find BERRIES growing there! Thankfully I'm SHORTS, so my pockets can carry plenty!
The grass is newly-trimmed and tidy.
ROUTE 24 NEW WILD POKéMON: 2
Bill respawning was actually a glitch! Buuuuuuut, it was a funny glitch. Thus, it stayed. Now he's the source of this game's economy!
Lodged in the trash can are dozens and dozens of BICYCLES.
DAZZLE: Ooh! You have a STAR PIECE! Would you like to trade it for a BADGE?
The body of a man is lying here. It appears he was punched to death…
Anyway... You seem to be the sort who enjoys doing sidequests. How about I show you another?
CELIA took the ?>?> +RRHKé NNCCKé2i9()_éJ{UP_ARROW}f fjklo0IIO<
A curtain depicting a WATER insignia. Would you like to hang the IRON CURTAIN?
ALFRED: Oh? You're back again?
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: That OLD ROD is a family heirloom. It's been passed down since my brother's father's sister's husband's son's brother's cousin. Take good care of it, y'hear?
BULBASAUR by Elliot GOLEM by number1jojofan
WARDEN: Come, {PLAYER}. You should join us!
The joke is that the starters in the cage are causing the evo music. Apparently that one goes over some people's heads.
Punch the ground?
Thanks for the support!
Wait, wasn't there a POKéMON CENTER here a minute ago? Darn, that's inconvenient. I guess I'm gonna have to run back to town after every fight. ROCK TUNNEL's gonna be a pain...
FAIRY-type? What's a FAIRY-type? Nope, there's never been a type like that before! You must be misremembering!
Celadon was the absolute bottleneck for development for so long. I couldn't think of any good ideas for it, and the map was so big I just felt overwhelmed. Then one day, the idea for the rando hit me, and everything just clicked. Now it's one of my favorite parts!
Hey, remember when you got dropped off right at the start of the game? I bet you could chase that TRUCK down if you had the right tool. Wanna give it a try?
TRAINER TIPS! Look, look! To the right of this sign!
Hey! Thanks for finding my keys! If you have a minute, how about you sit down and play a game with me? I'm a big fan of VOLTORB FLIP!
For those who don't know: In RBY, this guy was a menace. He had a Raticate at level 16 out of nowhere and he could easily wipe your whole team. Many nuzlockes were lost to this stupidly unfair fight. I just bumped his level up a bit.
How convenient! The electric lock opened!
FISHING GURU's BROTHER: You… You aren't with them, right? I'm the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER. The DMCA attacked me, but I escaped. I overheard what they're up to. Maybe it'll help us out. They're after the prize POKéMON in the SAFARI ZONE: a DRAGONITE. They say it violates copyright. But don't worry, it's safe. It's nowhere to be found in here. I think if you want to stop them, you'll need to find one yourself. Good luck in your search. I believe in you!
My daddy loves that POKéMON! He says he makes sure to always let people catch it in every game! But… This one seems a little… different.
This song is such a bop
JYNX by FemboyPixelart ARTICUNO by danstrider6025 BEEDRILL by Beespoon NIDORINA by Ankou!!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Awww. What happened to the floor? It's not warm and glowy anymore! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Behind the door is the back of the red curtain. You could easily walk through it, but you choose not to. It's important to play along!
Would you like to DRILL through it?
One of the most obscure references in this hack! In RBY, certain patches of grass couldn't spawn wild encounters if they had a small flower on them. Speedrunners use this to optimize their route through Viridian Forest.
This trash can updates after SURGE digs out the BIDE TM from it!
People often do things in the darkness of the UNDERGROUND PATH.
FURRET is surfing!
Young adventurer! Welcome to FUSHCIA GYM! I am your first challenge: PYRAMID KING BRANDON! Show me your courage in battle!
This guy has different dialogue based on how many trees you cut. Every time you cut one he has something new to say!
MT MOON BASEMENT NEW WILD POKéMON: 1 (yes, it's the same as the others)
A POKéMON is asleep in the road, but there's a path around it.
Man! This slope is something else. I tried to tackle it, but I'm famished! Can't do this on an empty stomach! Maybe I should make myself a little something to eat before trying again.
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
teeth
POKéKID: Uh, hey. This guy picked me up off the street the other day. I guess he thinks I'm a POKéMON? Chu Pika!!
This is outrageous! We're innocent, I tell you!
Lickitung's bit was gonna be some weird schtick where the guy was bisexual and you needed to give him onix or cloyster based on your player's gender. It wasn't funny, and it wasn't very interesting. Now it's pickles.
Oh, wasn't there a POKéMON over there helping us move in? I wonder what happened to it.
DODRIO by FeelgoodInk SEADRA by KaizenStarlight VILEPLUME by Raw Meat Arrow KRABBY by Reverend
I'm dressed like a MAID as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
The BRICKS have been BREAKED.
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
MINDY: Oh, wow! The RAICHU you traded me went and evolved!
Shh! Don't tell anyone, but we used to have a HOSPITAL here. Sadly we literally committed war crimes, so it got shut down!
These two kids are clearly illegal copies of each other. Even their POKéMON are the same!
That's the spirit! Come along, now! There's plenty to see!
… … … … … …
My --- Life, Ch-- I w-- --her a mur-- sus--, nor a t--- -- - --nterna--…
WARDEN: Here, take my GUN. I'm sure you'll need it.
No, there's nothing up here. This ledge is completely pointless. It's that way in vanilla too. I have no clue why.
SLOWPOKE: Duuuuurr! It's wearing a spiffy pair of shoes!
DAZZLE: Hey! You don't have any STAR PIECES! Are you trying to swindle me? Go away!
Hiya! Welcome to the SAFARI ZONE. We, uh… We have some important guests in the park right now. I hope you don't mind them.
Haha! I'm the DRAGON-type trainer! ...Or at least, I would be if DRAGON cards existed in Gen 3.
Here you go!
{PLAYER} stole a small child's EKANS!
Scattered across the floor of the boat are broken shards of an HM. A piece of paper is displayed on the hull…
58,786,253,730,000,000 miles later…
That's my HOUSE KEY! What are you doing? Are… Are you just trying to break in? C'mon, man. Not cool…
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: Hey there, {PLAYER}! How're you doing? Thank you again for all your help. You've earned a reward. Here, take this. It was my brother's father's prized posession. I pass it onto you with pride!
{PLAYER} obtained the LICKITUNG!
It seems the tree has moved on.
A POKéMON is in a deep slumber.
The present is empty.
KANGASKHAN: Graaaah!
If I'm being honest, I didn't really need more than one. Oh well!
The man in here tried to pass off another POKéMON as an EEVEE! That's against the law! It's okay - we've seized all of his possessions. Here, he was trying to keep this POKéMON secret. We don't need it, so take it!
The tree has been hastily covered with a coat of cheap paint.
If you're looking carefully, you can see the DAD BADGE on the wall. Foreshadowing!
The POWER PLANT's reactor is down. It seems the controller is broken. Would you like to insert your B BUTTON and turn the power on?
{PLAYER} decided against property damage.
At long last, I have completed my life's work! I've painted photorealistic fences all along the grass on this route! My artistic genius knows no limits!
Later!
test
I once had someone write a whole fan story about a “conservator” storming in and destroying everyone here with “facts and logic.” They even included a bit about ANGRY NERD MIKE getting out of here. What a loser LOL
KANGASKHAN: Gah! Kan-gah!
SLOWPOKE: Slooooow?
It's a shame how easy this puzzle is to cheese, cuz it's honestly very clever. The fact that there's two parallel puzzles which have an interlinked solution (Aron and Shedinja) is so fun. Too bad most players can cheese it for free.
He's almost free! Just a little more! Give him one last pet?
You can make out an imprint of the missing staircase.
“Kill the CEOs by shooting them” was actually already written into the plot long before Luigi came. It's pure coincidence that I got to make a joke about him! :)
Would you like to DRILL through it?
I'm a BOB-OMB BUDDY! This is placeholder text! Yay!
Huh? What? Where's the rest of my gang? We were gonna meet on CYCLING ROAD!
KANGASKHAN: Krraaaaa!
Stop right there! This building right here is the LAVENDER TOWN DANCE THEATER. They've been putting on shows that violate copyright! It's shut down until further notice.
This NPC's dialogue revoked until the full release. Sorry! -Celia
Oh, uhh hey! How's it been? You, uh… found MAGNEMITE, I see. Uhhh, funny story about that. We {PAUSE 30}actually found one already. We don't need yours anymore… Sorry! Uhh, see ya later! Hope you find someone else!
DAUMAN: So. You've finally arrived. I hear you're the little rascal who's been disrupting our plans. You'd better listen here! We are the DMCA! We command the production of all creative works. Nothing gets made without us! Do you think you're doing creators a favor by infringing on them? Stealing profits from their mouths?
There's a third switch in the trash! Are we really doing this?
Halt there!
Would you like to use your TOXIC SLUDGE?
Oh, phew… Okay. False alarm. But yeah, anyway… There's a blackout at the LIGHTHOUSE.
{PLAYER} found -1 SITRUS BERRIES!
There's a secret dad behind the building!
DARACH: Gah, I was too slow… I wasn't able to assist my lady. Nonethematter! I shall deal with you myself!
{PLAYER} gave up on the assignment.
Uhh, I don't think that one goes here. Maybe you're mistaken.
ICE ROOM Idk I think it's pretty cool
{PLAYER} left the bench to its own devices. The bench appears content.
It appears to have been built last Tuesday…
Wow! As a reward, you get a free JIRACHI! Quick! Connect your GBA!
Ha, maybe I should write a book about the experience. Hmm… On second thought, nah. Who'd read a book like that anyway?
SPROUT TOWER Notice! This TOWER has not yet sprouted.
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
TENTACOOL by KaizanStarlight DRAGONAIR by sonicfachero MAGMAR by GarfieldTheLightning
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Hey! What's the big idea? One minute I'm sitting here, soaking up the sun. The next, some brat decides to dump some water on me! Ah, to heck with it. I'm outta here!
Bwa bwaa.
This FISHING GURU was a rip-off of all the other ones!
TM30 contains MAGICAL LEAF. It's a move that I absolutely love to use! There aren't many POKéMON that can use it, but keep it in mind! I'm sure you'll find it very useful someday soon!
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
Viridian Gym door is so good. I don't even have anything to say about it. It's just incredible.
If you want to know the level of detail I strive for: I spent at least an hour agonizing over whether this sign should be on the right or left of the snorlax. It's right. Definitely right. … uh I think
I'm on the hunt for a SQUAD of rowdy POKéMON. I hear they were last seen here. Our fire department could really use some help after the budget cuts!
Will you enter the left door, or will you enter the right door? Trust your intuition, and let your wit be your guide!
Oh… This guy looks a little… broken. Oh well! Your problem now! See ya!
FURRET: Bwaah!
That's the spirit! Come along, now! There's plenty to see!
What, you can't even afford it? Then get lost!
You've already seen this cutscene! Would you like to skip it?
A small tower is growing underground.
That's okay. I got the one I wanted. Hey, what was that other guy doing here anyway?
Hey, there! Do you happen to have a MAGNEMITE? I actually have two MAGNEMITE here with me right now. We're just one away from evolving! Oh! You have one with you! Great news! That means we can… … …
There's an invisible object in the way.
EXEGGUTOR by Lichen KABUTOPS by Gayren ZAPDOS by HoodlumCal!
All right, everyone! Let's get back to it!
The POWER PLANT is supposed to supply lighting to ROCK TUNNEL. Now that it's down, the whole cave is pitch black. This is awful! Who knows what they're doing in there?
Another job well done. Thanks for the continued patronage! -KANTO Lawn Maintenance Service
The door is locked…
Heal Pulse…
The empty doorframe remains alone.
Yeah, the shinies are guaranteed.
“You can now sniff beds” was the funniest patch note ever.
Many books lie scattered and disheveled across the floor. Looking at the titles, they all read “My Secret Life, Chapter Three.”
This MONKEY came free with a pack of gum I bought. Sadly, he doesn't actually seem to be useful for anything. What a pity!
For reasons that are so dumb and convoluted that I couldn't even begin to describe them here, this path is 2 tiles shorter now. Please don't ask why.
Thank goodness the POWER is back on. I bet the LIGHTHOUSE is finally taking visitors again.
{PLAYER} decided to be a good citizen and not break into the house!
Obviously the pokemon would win.
FURRET: Bwaah!
…Ah. I understand. It was the PARENTAL BOND between her and CUBONE that called to her. That must've kept her safe. Come, this is no place to have conversation. Let's return to the SCHOOL.
Hold it!
There is no longer a BLACKGLASSES here. Guess you're out of luck...
PARASECT by Plasto EXEGGCUTE by Crypto Test MUK by Jake The Axo DEWGONG by Jogaklaa
ELM: Hi there, {PLAYER}! My name is... ELM: W-wait! No! Stop, please!
Only one identical copy of the favorite shirt remains.
{PLAYER} laid in the bed. Mmm… This bed stinks!
Okay, that's what I thought.
There's graffiti on the back of the sign…
Originally, dad here talked about you getting chased by the Lasses. Unfortunately, the plural tipped people off that she'd attack again before getting a chance to see it.
What's this? A TM CASE? Ha! No way we'll let that slide. It's ours now!
ERIK: Oh? Hello, there. I am but a humble black sesame seed. My name is ERIK.
Nope! There's only trash here.
KANTO Child Delivery Service! “No child left behind!”
Oh my goodness-! I… I'm back home! Thank you so much for bringing me here. I am forever in your debt.
So few people realize that you can check these bikes for dialogue.
The GYM LEADER set up the invisible walls all over the GYM. But… They make me so anxious! Anyone could be looking at me!
Ah, this guy. My least favorite fight. So, there's at least 5 distinct solutions for him. You probably did either Mud Slap or Toedscool. There's others too! Getting him to be both easy to beat with an answer but impossible to beat without one was TOUGH. I needed constant revisions. Also, I'm upset cuz he only SOMETIMES blows up like he's supposed to.
Woah, there! It's me: CELIA, the creator. Sorry about the landing! I hope you don't mind sleeping with a giant hole in your wall. Those winter nights'll be rough! But hey, while I'm here: How about you give this a try next?
Hiya! Thanks for clearing out the DMCA! Would you like to spend some time in the SAFARI ZONE?
Would you like to drill another hole?
BUTTERFREE by KaizenStarlight!
MT MOON BASEMENT NEW WILD POKéMON: 1
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
A hole has been dug.
I have no idea what these are supposed to be.
{PLAYER} obtained the GOLURK!
It's a vending machine! It's been broken into, and all the contents have been removed.
Hey, did you know you only need one SESAME SEED for a SANDWICH? I got lucky and spotted one on the ground over here. Score!
{PLAYER} picked up a SHELLDER!
Yup, that's everything to do here. No SS TICKET or anything! Feel free to collect as many DOLLS as you want!
Hey! The POWER's back on! I hope everyone in ROCK TUNNEL is doing well. You should check on them!
…Huh? Of course I wasn't gonna give you one with a TAIL attached. This ain't a charity! I just didn't need the rest of it. Figured I'd do a good deed.
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: Same here! I'm ready to take a long nap.
The fancy STAKATAKA is dead.
Huh? Where'd everyone go?
There's a BRICK wall in the way. Would you like to BREAK it?
The girl throwing herself into the woods was originally a bug! But it was so funny that there was no way I was gonna remove it. That said, even though it was funny, people still kept reporting it. So, I changed the sign to explicitly direct the player to try it.
I'm doing TRADES as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Yup, the music in here is vanilla! Idk why this place uses the Forest music, but people keep thinking that I was the one who put it here.
I dropped my balls! … … … My TERA balls, of course. … {PAUSE 30}…Huh? It's an ORB, you say?
I put a Water Stone here so you could evolve your Shellder without needing to backtrack to Celadon. Alas, some people do that anyway.
My favorite part of Pokemon Snap as a kid was going back through the courses and finding the signs. I really wanted to recreate that sense of discovery here.
It might be best to leave her alone.
Hello, traveler! Have you met the SAFARI WARDEN? He's a kind soul. He wouldn't dare hurt anyone innocent. But… He's been under a lot of stress, with the whole SAFARI ZONE thing. Maybe he needs someone to talk to. You should pay him a visit. I'm sure he'd appreciate it.
Mwahaha! It's me! I'm the one POISONING everyone!
Here, how about you learn the power of RETREAT for yourself?
Double battler 2
This guy is incredible and I won't let anyone tell me otherwise.
FISHING GURU's BROTHER'S COUSIN: Hello! I am the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER'S COUSIN! Oh? You thought I was the FISHING GURU's BROTHER? Nope! Never heard of him. He from around here?
…I forgot the rest.
Rhydon deez nuts
This is actually one of my favorite jokes in the hack. On its face, sure it's just a silly SPONGEBOB reference. However, the punchline is delivered by the game engine itself. I really enjoy using game mechanics in unintended ways to deliver fun. That's what this hack is all about. Even when it's used for something as pointless as a shitpost! PS: I'm about to vanish as soon as you walk over there. There's a whole system of “Clone Objects” to keep maps consistent. I litearlly could not care less.
A POKéMON is asleep on the road. There's no way around it. Looks like it's time to get through by force!
A curtain depicting a FIRE insignia. Would you like to hang the IRON CURTAIN?
Oh, okay then.
Heal Pulse… Heal Pulse… Heal Pulse… Recycle… Heal Pulse…
Your goal is to prevent being challenged by both trainers. I gave you access to the POISON room at the same time as this one. Think about how this room is laid out, and think about the properties of double battles. Then, think about the unique properties of POISON as a status. Good luck! I believe in you!
WARDEN: Come, let's head back home. I'm eager to move on from this trying time. What say you, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER?
Hey, looks like this guy came with a little something extra. Check it out!
ROOM I don't have a name for this one, sorry.
Anyway, I have to head out now. Good luck, and see ya later!
{PLAYER} received KENYA from the sleepy man!
The “Who's poisoning everyone” bit from Viridian was never really planned to go anywhere. But! I wanted to be sure every joke was followed-up on.
Do you see that guy sitting in the corner behind me? He's been there for a few months. We put out a new demo for a game that's launching soon. I think he really likes it! But… It sounds like he might be counting something, I think? Every 20 minutes it goes up by one.
A secret switch! Press it?
ROUTE 5 NEW WILD POKéMON: 2
They say the challenges in this GYM can be beaten with any team. If you want to get through, use your wits - not just brute force!
The first three houses are designed to show you the randomization. The first two lead directly to each other, and then the third goes to the CENTER. This sets the tone for the area without being too confusing!
Hey! Get out of the way! I can't see the show!
Hey! How'd you get your TM CASE back? Grr… Give it here!
A BLUE FLUTE is a most wonderful item, huff-puff. Playing it will awaken any sleeping POKéMON, huff-puff!
Jagged rocks line the wall.
You probably shouldn't tell him…
Help! I can't get up! If only it were physically possible to scale waist-high cliffs…
Hey! Wait! How did you know those words? I… {PAUSE 30}I've been waiting a long time for someone like you to come. I think it must finally be time. Here, take this. You've earned it.
WOLFF: Grr… That joke was used in a different romhack! You'll pay for this!
Nope! There's only trash here.
FARFETCH'D by Roshie ABRA by Lichen!
The INSTINCT SEAL has been inserted.
ERIK: Oh? Hello, there. I am but a humble black sesame seed. What's that? You'd like me to come with you? Sorry, but I cannot. I plan to see my partner SARA soon. I wonder where she's gone…
PRETTY PETALS Flower Shop - - - - Free! - - - - WAILMER PAIL Giveaway!
…Well, I guess it took a bit of nudging for you to do what's right. That's okay, though! We all make mistakes!
The sign says ONIGIRI in Japanese. That's the word for Rice Balls.
Every so often, a peculiar TM will wash up on the beach. It's said that to use the move, your POKéMON needs to be prepared for the final evolutionary step. I wonder if I'll ever truly see what that means…
wiz1989: I've been studying Pitism for years. Pits are simply my passion! And this splendid specimen is one of my favorites! You can easily get lost in it!
AMITY SQUARE Cute POKéMON only! We're extremely strict.
I am LANCE of the ELITE FOUR! {PAUSE 30}…Or well, I was. I got kicked out for using an “illegal” POKéMON. Pah! I've moved on to a format more suited to my strenghs: Balanced Hackmons!
Read this guy's dialogue veeeeeery carefully lol
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: That OLD ROD is a family heirloom. It's been passed down since my brother's father's sister's husband's son's brother's cousin. Take good care of it, y'hear?
TRAINER TIPS The Speedup option is in your emulator. Remember to use it when needed!
I dropped my glasses... Can you help me find them?
Y'know, I don't actually have a punchline prepared for the “They're poisoning everyone” line. Usually I try to follow up on every joke/plot thread I set up. Oh well.
{PLAYER} received SCYTHER from the TCG player!
I see you've brought your SANDWICH CASE! Very good! How may I serve you today?
She's grateful for your help.
Oh no! Grandpa's dead!
Beware, fair traveler, as you ascend. Climbing this tower will face you against the greatest fear of any fanfiction author.
Thank you!
All right, ladies and gentlemen! It's time for tonight's show! Coming in from JOHTO, put your hands together for our main event: BIG YELLOW and the KIMONO GIRLS!
There's an e-mail message here. … Greetings, friend! It is indeed my pleasure to write to you this letter. My name is Mutassim Gaddafi, and I am a prince of Nigeria. Recently, my father has passed away and left me with a large sum. MR. BIRCH, please send us a small fee…
Those DOLLS aren't free! You can't just take one!
A familiar painting of three lit bombs. Wanna jump face-first into it?
Hey! Don't act innocent! Down in the UNDERGROUND PATH, you wouldn't stop looking at me! What was that about?
It was shockingly hard to not get your Pokemon deleted permanently. I had to disable Saving while you explore the main gym challenge.
Hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. This is the end of the preview! I hope you had fun! See if you can catch all 103 POKéMON available. You made it this far. You can do it! The full demo will contain this gym, so look forward to it!
FRIEND ROOM A room that greets you with a nice, warm hug!
And here is the perfect example of how I write: I make a silly one off gag, like the Kanto Lawn Service back in Viridian. Then, I quote it again, turning it into a running joke. And then? Well... You'll need to stay tuned to see!
We got one! Ayy! Wait, your party's full. Go clear it out!
Ugh, fine. If you take this, will you leave me alone?
BLASTOISE by Savannah POLIWHIRL by Jogaklaa
ROUTE 16{PAUSE 30} ROAD WORK AHEAD
My bad!
Yeah, Dad is everyone's Dad. What, you thought you were special?
SOPHOCLES: …And that's just the tip of the iceberg!
This map is so forgettable that when rebuilding Celadon I totally forgot to include it. Whoopsies!
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
Too bad! There's no TM CASE…
I feel concerned that I scared the average player into thinking that this guy would talk for ages. Come on, guys! I'm not THAT mean!
There is an odd tree in the way. Would you like to WATER it?
{PLAYER} obtained some LETTUCE!
Is that a… Coffee machine? A french press, maybe? I have no clue.
It seems this DMCA GRUNT is simply a detailed cardboard cut-out. You push it aside.
Would you like to punt it through the wall hole?
If you approach the arena with Yoshi knowing Gulp in your party, the music changes. The song is Ozone's Finest from Pokemon Pisces! One of the tracks I wrote for them.
{PLAYER}'s TM CASE was taken…
Upon double-checking, you find that the tree is, in fact, still not OAK.
The VULPIX does not want to be picked up.
Congratulations! WISHMAKER JIRACHI was sent!
{PLAYER} reluctantly returned the BLACKGLASSES to the dumb NERD…
It's a POWER Plant!
Hiya! It's me, CELIA! I hope you've been having fun! You've been completing your POKéDEX, right? It's very important to do that! Right now, I recommend that you have 69 POKéMON caught. (nice) The highest you can have is 83, but some are VERY hard to find. Don't force yourself to finish! Anyway, good luck coming up! Read carefully and pay attention. Have fun!
The tree has been hastily covered with a coat of cheap paint. Slather the bark with HONEY?
{PLAYER} put the CHEESE in the SANDWICH CASE.
The KANTO Lawn Maintenance service has been going above and beyond! Honestly, after seeing their recent work I'm at a loss for words.
58,786,253,730,000,000 floors later…
As far as I'm concerned, this is the most important line in the game. It doesn't really set anything up or anything, but if it wasn't new, nobody would check ANYTHING.
Yes, this is a reference to the old Vulpix card that had a misprint on every single copy. I was surprised to see so many folks getting confused on where Joey and Ralph live!
HIPPOPOTAS: Po-prra…!
NINETALES by Lichen EKANS by Jogaklaa OMASTAR by Dillsack
Examining the water, you find it refreshingly TENTACOOL-free.
An unused door lay dejected against the wall.
The door is locked.
{RIVAL}
A POKéMON is painted onto the side of this truck. Neat!
I'm gonna put a cutscene here at some point.
This is like a three-layer secret area, and I love it! The intended way of finding it is with the TOWN MAP. You can see a secret area called ???. You can see it's to the left of the ALTAR, but the ALTAR is hidden too! You need to put a whole bunch of problem solving skills to the test.
Nooooo! Not again!
{PLAYER} hung the IRON CURTAIN.
The NPCs here are to prepare you for the rest of the game. This is when the puzzle aspects of the design are emphasized, so I gave a reminder of the hint systems
Oh, rats. I went the wrong way…
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
The grove is now noticably less dense.
ASH: Wow, PIKACHU! That was such a good show!
Good luck
I'd like to give a personal fuck you to the redditor who told me, quote, “Boo fucking hoo” when I said I don't like when people cheat rare candies into my puzzle game. He's clearly not smart enough to get this far, so I'm not worried.
Nope! That's not OAK either!
Thank you for taking the time to read this sign. … … … … … … This sign loves you.
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
I don't understand. Why couldn't I win? I purchased all the CELIA'S STUPID ROMHACK DLC and bonus content. I should've won!
A man is lying dead on the ground. He appears to have been kicked very hard…
Just up these stairs is the new content. Good luck! PS I'm not writing in any more logic here. I will continue to walk up.
The POKéMON looks exceedingly confused.
{PLAYER} put the COINS away in the COIN CASE. How convenient!
MATH CLUB was always CUBONE's favorite activity after school. I hope his MOTHER is safe up there. I'd be distraught if something happened to her.
This guy is here in case you forget about the Tombstoner TM. Seeing it in the shop might make you read it if you hadn't yet.
Originally, POKéMON TOWER was supposed to be built horizontally.
DAD: The DAD BADGE will allow you to use SURF outside of battle. Now you can explore the KANTO GREAT SEA! But never mind that. How about you take REST?
{PLAYER}... Thank you so much, again. You truly showed what it means to be an ally to our community.
Hmm… There's no response from this one!
Aww man… Right when I got ready to go for a ride, this tiny little lake spontaneously appeared here. To make things worse, I can't even go back through the gate! …Huh? Why can't I just turn around and go back home? Because I'm not allowed inside normal buildings! I don't have a walking sprite!
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
TRAINER TIPS Some POKéMON have not had their types altered in this hack. SKUNTANK, for instance, is DARK/POISON-TYPE.
{PLAYER} opened the present.
This whole route is, of course, Twitch Plays Pokemon and its infamous ledge. You can't run here to ensure that there's plenty of setup to the joke
{PLAYER} obtained a CLEFAIRY!
She's staring intently at your TM CASE. Would you like to give her a TM?
What, can't you recognize a good deal when you see it?
Hello, challenger! I am SPENSER of the BATTLE PALACE. I give my POKéMON freedom to choose their own MOVES. I put full faith in their choices.
VICTREEBEL by Swiwious! Grimer by Fayren
Planning meeting for Celia's Stupid Romhack 2! Only those who are related to this project are allowed to enter. -Celia's Stupid Dev Company
We found an ITEM here that induced an illegal evolution in DRAGONITE. We passed it to our team in the CELADON DMCA LAW OFFICES. One of our ADMINS is guarding it. …What's that? You took it from him!? No!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Yuck! This weather is awful! Good thing I brought my umbrella! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
SQRT(121) = ? {LEFT_ARROW} 11 {UP_ARROW} -11 {RIGHT_ARROW} 12
ROUTE 1
Getting this map of Celadon to work was a nightmare! There's too many colors for the GBA to have an easy time rendering it. The design had to be very crafty! Unfortunately, as far as I can tell it's not actually very helpful. Oh well.
A silhouette can be seen projected from behind. It looks to be a shadow of its former self.
Fun fact one of my ex co-devs pretended to be a colorblind dutch trans girl for over a year so they could call me slurs behind my back. You run into all sorts of weirdos online.
{PLAYER} obtained the forgotten CUBONE!
In order to get the music to stop and restart in a funny way, I had to make a copy of this route. When you go into the cave, you get sent to the other copy. Then, that map is set to play a duplicate of the Route 10 music. That way, the music stops and starts back up, instead of just playing nonstop.
And we will always have each others' backs! No matter what!
He appears to be asleep… Now's your chance!
Notice! Extensive testing found that this boat cannot be used to cross water.
die
DARACH: My, my. You've found a way past us. But I've let my lady down. I must beg for her forgiveness. Don't falter now, TRAINER. Lest I be riddled with regret.
Jagged rocks line the wall.
Hahaha, that's cute. I bet you thought it was optional! Now, c'mon! There's plenty to see!
Ah yes, the Furret House. As far as I'm concerned it's just filler, but hey. It IS very fun to walk with them.
They say that in gen 1, this girl predicts the existence of MUNNA. I just made her prediction mildly more accurate!
This POKéMON was holding an illegal copy of itself. I've put into custody until I can figure out which came first.
…Suddenly there was a power outage!
{PLAYER} found 9999 COINS!
I'm sorry, but there's a blackout at the LIGHTHOUSE right now.
first option
Mx. SEA: This drink is crazy, yo! Just one sip of this and watch-!
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
Hey, that was a good game!
Come visit us if you need, uh, not ORAN BERRIES.
Fwahaha! Foolish challenger! We are the SHADOW TRIAD!
CELIA: Okay! You two can get back at it, then. Have fun!
DELIBIRD used WAKE-UP SLAP!
The example Pokemon that this guy gives for one that doesn't evolve has changed a lot in development. Originally it was Paras, then Sandshrew (before Sonic was a thing) I settled on Abra, but honestly I think Rattata might be better? Idk!
The books are tattered. Some words can be made out…
This POKéMON is terrified of you. He looks ready to run away.
This MART was selling the same items as all the others!
{PLAYER} hung the IRON CURTAIN.
That little plastic SCOPE you stole from us doesn't scare me. You'll need something with REAL firepower if you wanna take us down!
Hey, you! Wanna pull our little scam?
The COLOSSEUM Bonus Disc is loaded up! {PLAYER} plugged the GBA into the GAMECUBE! Connecting... Connecting... Connected! Please don't touch the Memory Card or the POWER button! Transferring... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
OAK is not walking.
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator. You're not supposed to be here! I'm not sure how you got here, but I'll make sure you can leave. Thanks, and good luck!
He's transfixed by the shadow on the wall. He does not consider your presence.
Hmm, I wonder why I give you a Helix Fossil right here, even though wild OMANYTE are right there. Very curious!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hey! Did you see my face just now? I think I finally made it big! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Hiding a secret behind a detail that you can only make out in the intro? Fucking genius, if I do say so myself. Which Emblem is your favorite?
If you do the Nugget Bridge battles with only one Pokemon, it crashes. Thus, there's a little script that stops you if you try! You technically can still crash here if you really try, but eh. I'm not worried about it right now.
Yes, this guy has a purpose. Just not yet.
Ooh, I wonder what this is about!
{PLAYER} put some ASH in the SOOT SACK!
It looks like you haven't really made too much of an effort to fill in your POKéDEX. Uh, I wasn't kidding earlier when I said you really should fill it out!
MAI: No, no, PRA. We're doing Math!
Move Deleter's House Notice! The Move Deleter's House has been deleted.
This sign is annoying because the numbers are for the full game. But because this is just the demo, people get confused. Ah well.
Ooh, look! There's a path through the trees!
There were a bunch of people waiting over there in a line. Half of them were looking towards SAFFRON CITY which was fine, but some were looking right at me. So, I decided to scare them off!
Mew?
The first two Tentacool encounters here are actually scripted! MT MOON had the encounter rate MASSIVELY reduced, but I still wanted it to FEEL annoying. So, I put two scripted Tentas right at the start to scare you.
Huh? You don't even have ¥500? Yeesh, kid. Go visit BILL.
Normally it's impossible to talk to NPCs in the water while you're on land. I had to do some actual fuckery in the game's code to let this room work.
Crabhammer is supposed to tell you which of your Pokemon can evolve. If they evolve into krabby, they can't evolve using other methods.
SPHYRALG: I should've known better than to help create this hack. Now I'm stick in the pit with no way out…
Lovely! Thanks so much! I hope you have a great time!
I've never read or seen Dune. I hear it's good.
CAITLYN: Ah, hello. Are you the new challenger? I wish to test your mettle myself. Would you like to battle?
There was a scientist-type here earlier. He said he was SHARING his copy of XP. That's against the law! I don't know why he was here, but I arrested him just in case. Here, he was carrying this. Take it!
The window overlooks a 70-foot drop down to the ground below. Would you like to jump?
Aha! Finally, a guest! We are the HAIRCUT Brothers. Word of my expertise must have finally reached across KANTO! Yes, I'm truly humbled.
I am the older HAIRCUT brother. My technique speaks for itself! If you please, I'd love to show my skill on one of your POKéMON.
6 {DIVIDE} 2(1 + 2) = ? {LEFT_ARROW} 9 {UP_ARROW} 1 {RIGHT_ARROW} Shitty Notation
Hiya! Welcome to the SAFARI ZONE. We, uh… We have some important guests in the park right now. I hope you don't mind them. Would you like to enter anyway?
A small sesame seed-shaped imprint is all that remains.
BERRIES need water to grow. Without it, they'll shrivel and die. I have a SPRAYBOTTLE that you could use to water plants that need it. But… SPRAYBOTTLES are actually extremely dangerous. I can't trust a stranger with one! I know! Come back after you've defeated the ELITE FOUR. That should prove that you can safely handle a water bottle!
The trash can puzzle in VERMILLION GYM looked incredibly complicated. Thank goodness for the power outage!
This rock is here cuz the orange cliff color looked awful under the wire fence. I covered it up with a rock instead and hoped no one would notice.
Now see here, DUSCLOPS. You cannot simply attack any TRAINER who comes in. It's quite unbefitting of you!
Rats! There's a POKéMON in the road. I've been pushing and pushing, but I can't move it out of the way! Grr, if only there was a way I could just wake it up! Grumble grumble…
The wall is empty except for a large, truck-shaped hole. The hole is not person-shaped, so you cannot fit.
Looks like I didn't need any help after all. Sorry! Hope you're able to find someone else someday!
Ahaha! I am DOME ACE TUCKER. Come, darling. Let's put on a show!
The door is locked.
The door is locked... Use the HOUSE KEY?
FURRET: Bwaah!
Hi, there! My name is BIRCH! But everyone calls me the POKéMON PROFESSOR! My associate ELM was waiting just outside. Did you speak to him?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? No, seriously. We're REALLY far from home. How'd you manage the hike? Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
These tiles are laid out in what's called a Hilbert Curve. It's a space-filling fractal curve. I hope you appreciate that I had to do math for this.
I hope you take some time to reflect on your actions! Anyway, I'll be leaving now. Remember to fill out the POKéDEX!
A lone bench is floating adrift in the waters. Would you like to push it?
SOPHOCLES: Hello! Welcome to FESTIVAL PLAZA! We're holding a festival where TRAINERS can meet with each other. Come, take a look around! In fact, if you have a couple hours to spare, I'll give you a tour!
This guy's here cuz in Emerald, they swap the places of him and the rich lady to the north. No clue why, but it's trans enough for me!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm enjoying some sightseeing here in the SAFARI ZONE. The wildlife seems sparse, though. Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
There's a scroll on the wall. It needs a secret message.
Good job talking to me!
I wanted to have Game Corner Coins under the bridge, as a silly way to call attention to the genre mismatch here. Alas, I couldn't figure out how to make it not break getting 9999 coins in the game corner.
Aww, man! I thought watching MEAN GIRLS would make me an expert at calculus. Guess it takes a little more than that…
Man, that staircase in the back of the CELADON MANSION went on forever! Can't you skip staircases like that with a speedrunning technique? I wonder how you could do that here.
It looks like a ladder, but it's actually a very fancy stepladder.
NINJA TRICK ROOM The room for KOGA's NINJA TRICK!
Personally, the sugary-sweet hyper positivity you see here tends to make me roll my eyes. However, I know that it's the kind of encouragement that a lot of the queer folk in the community need. I don't mind putting aside my own cynicism to help others.
Hahaha, that's cute. I bet you thought it was optional! Nope, I'm showing you around whether you want it or not!
???
Okay, that's what I thought.
Fill that SOOT SACK with ash and bring it back to me. I'll craft you a present, huff-puff!
{PLAYER} obtained the PSYDUCK!
I'm very happy with how this route turned out. All the jokes and bits are paced out wonderfully, and it's very pretty too.
Moon Stones have been entirely removed from this hack. However, for a long time there were plans to have a place to get them. I'm not fully sure what my design rationale was back then, but either way I think they're staying gone.
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
The lights are plugged in, but the power is off.
GASTLY by Jogaklaa
Invincible? No, GIOVANNI, leader of the DMCA. There was one thing that you'd failed to account for. So listen up! We aren't just a POKéMON GYM!
The wall is empty except for a large, truck-shaped hole.
Would you like to insert the MYSTIC SEAL?
This fanfic here is known as Sonic High School. If you haven't read it, hooo boy. You're in for a treat. I made sure to cut it off before it got REALLY spicy.
Huh? What's going on outside? I've been playing slots for a week straight - I don't have time to go outside!
TRAINER TIPS! Visit the SECRET HOUSE for a great prize! … Dumbass.
Bah! Such cowardice! Fine, then. Be on your way.
To my knowledge, I was the first person to make a midi pokerap. I couldn't find any fan ones made online, so I had to do it myself.
PC BOX PALETTE
Young adventurer! Welcome to FUSHCIA GYM! I am your first challenge: PYRAMID KING BRANDON! Show me your courage in battle!
{PLAYER} put the LETTUCE in the SANDWICH CASE.
Oh? Forgot something on the other side, did you? That's fine. Going through the purified zone still heals you.
He's worried for his MOTHER.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I've deposited ¥5000 into your bank account. Would you like to SAVE your game?
Notice! Extensive testing found this boat to be incapable of crossing water. Don't fall for scams!
Hey, you! Listen here! I wanna scam someone out of a good trade. We'll both make out like bandits! Whaddya say? Are you in?
Thank you. What was your name, again? {PLAYER}? ... ...{PLAYER}, okay! Well, {PLAYER}, thank you. You've stood with us in solidarity, and you're helping us thrive. You truly understand what it means to be an ALLY of our community. As thanks for this, I'd be honored to present you with this: The RAINBOWBADGE!
It's a table set up to play VOLTORB FLIP! Play a round?
Minstrel shows existed in Japan after being introduced by the US in post-WW2 reconstruction. They remained popular up until the 90's, where globalization actually made some Japanese folks confused at why their shows were offensive. From Jynx's dancing and costume, to its penchant for opera singing, and yes, even its blackface appearance, Theater explains this Pokemon more than anything else. This, ofc, does not excuse it. Jynx's first design was a mistake. Changing color was the right call. Sadly any commentary on this tends to be drowned out by folks who don't know shit and just wanna defend their childhood Pokemon. Oh well.
Hi, there! Welcome back from Demo 2! It looks like last update, you unlocked the Dev Commentary! Nicely done! This time, there's new quests to find, so I've disabled it for now. You need to find the new stuff too! Here's a hint to get you started:
{PLAYER} put the JELLY DONUT in the toaster…
Believe me, going into the basement is a mistake. There's a reason I keep everyone down there!
Hey, uh... Listen. I know you really like FLASH, but that move's a bit too strong. I can't balance the hack around it. You're gonna have to give something else instead. Is there a backup option?
{PLAYER} found 9999 COINS!
DAZZLE: What? You changed your mind? So… … … LAME!!!
Nope! There's only trash here.
It's no worry. You'll never make it to the BOSS! Copyright law is sacred! You've got no chance against us!
Something about this tree in particular feels... off.
Oops something broked
Only one per save file!
The wall is now adorned with twice as many holes.
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
SAFARI ZONE, LLC. Financial Division
He has a gift for you!
{PLAYER} discovered a POKéMON SIGN!
No... H-How could you? Sob...
… … … … … … Okay. Looks like she's gone.
Splendid! I'm a traveler, you see, but I think I'm in a bit of trouble. See, I play POKéMON GO, and I was preparing to evolve my MELTAN. Sadly, just as I was ready to do so, I tripped because I wasn't careful! And thus, my MELTAN CANDY got scattered across all of KANTO! I'm trying to find it all, but I'm still missing 45 PIECES. Could you help me find the rest?
Oh wow! Mine does too! And also JOEY's next door, and RALPH down the road, and…
{STR_VAR_1} was poisoned!
{COLOR BLUE}My prize SCYTHER just learned a new MOVE, so I gave it a try. Apparently it wound up, uh… teleporting me to a bench? So now I'm here.
Oww-…
MAZE ROOM This maze kinda sucks
{PLAYER} found 1 ?>?> +RRHKé NNCCKé2i9()_éJ{UP_ARROW}f fjklo0IIO< jfld {SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}{SUPER_ER}
I get a shocking amount of milage from the pit.
Y'know now that I think about it, POKéMON MAIL isn't a particularly efficient delivery service. Oh well, back to sleep. Yawn…
It's OAK's specially-ordered GS BALL! Take it?
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Huuu-ah!! Hey, kid! What's the big idea? What's that? You like my gains? Ha, ha! Yeah, I get it. You want a bod like mine! But you can't just go chuckin' water on anyone you're jealous of. Don't let envy turn ya green! But here - you want a boost? Try this!
Hooray!
This looks like a SLOT MACHINE, but it's actually a very fancy toaster.
BUGSY: Yeah, exactly! That's what happened to me! Do you have any clue what's up with that?
At first Celadon Gym was gonna be the only trans jokes in the hack. However, that made so many people angry that I decided to go harder. Suck my ass, fuckheads!
DRILL ROOM You know the drill. …Y'know. {PAUSE 30}The drill.
{PLAYER} connected their GBA!
{PLAYER} got away safely! The GHOST seems to be appeased.
This guy is an allusion to Harry Dubois from Disco Elysium! He lost his gun, which the Safari Warden eventualy finds. Real Harry is not nearly this rude, though.
The door is locked.
There's a familiar-looking tuft buried in the snow. Pet it?
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
There was a scientist-type here earlier. He said he was SHARING his copy of XP. That's against the law! I don't know why he was here, but I arrested him just in case.
He's glued to the tree.
Ah, hello! Welcome to our AMERICAN Bakery!
BRELOOM: Bree!
I hate fish. Fishing is a farce.
Home of the BERRY POWDER MAN Notice! Sadly, nobody cared about the BERRY POWDER MAN, so he died.
Hey! Get out of the way! Thanks for moving that girl in front of me, but I still can't see!
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
The average age in this room has decreased by 4.7 years.
BABY: Ka-kanga?
This sign is me giving up. I tried very hard to think of ways to tell the player that Koffing is Poison/Dark without spelling it out. Sadly, players kept assuming that it was Ghost/Dark and not trying their ground moves on it. Thus, I gave up and just wrote it directly on a sign.
Haha, thanks! I'll see what I can swipe with this.
The SNORLAX ran off to the mountains…
Oh no! Grandpa's dead!
The door is no longer locked!
I'm so, so sorry to any colorblind players.
Okay, that's what I thought.
House for sale... Nobody lives here!
{FONT_SMALL}Geez, what a lousy neighborhood. I'm outta here! Stay dry, ya jerk!
FURRET: Bwaah!
ROUTE 1_ NEW WILD POKéMON: 1
Foreshadowing is a literary device in which
…
I made all of the Celia Secrets without realizing that this one is the first one you see stepping out of the gym. Probably not the kindest first impression for the special bonus. Oops!
{PLAYER} memorized the secret password…
The present is empty.
{PLAYER} was given two E TANKS, MISSILES, and a VULPIX!
This DAD is the reason I put him on every route. The line about the player's dad is in vanilla, so I wanted to have dad pop up when you read it. But to justify that, I had to make sure the player remembers he exists Thus, the best character in the game was born!
Wh- w-s -ix -fraid -f s-ven? {LEFT_ARROW} 7 {UP_ARROW} 8 {RIGHT_ARROW} … …
Have you tried filling in the survey yet? It's one of my favorite bits!
DAZZLE: YESSS! Thanks to you, guy, my STAR PIECE collection is even bigger now! YESSS!
Ah! U-um… It's, uh… It's not… ALL bad? Yeah! Actually, it's very lovely! There's such a neat, uhh… f-fade! There's a neat fade to it! Yes, I'm sure you'll be very happy with it. Please, uh, don't come again!
Would you like to feed the SAND CASTLE a SAND WICH?
Perhaps it's the pleasant white flash that draws {PLAYER} in so. Ah, what a fine flash. How about we see it again?
Aww… You're no fun.
Our ADMIN up ahead took the strongest PARADOX POKéMON. There's no way you'll get through!
Fufufufu… Welcome, {PLAYER}! I am the LEADER of this GYM. Oh? What's that? How did I know your name? Ha! That's because you've been misled. You see, this is merely a disguise! In truth, my real identity is…
Yarrrgh. Ye can't be using words like that! This be a fucking kids' game, after all!
This is the most pointless house in the game. It's a clue to Butterfree, but it's not even delivered with a joke. I really need to rewrite this at some point.
I understand that you probably just wanna mash through text, especially if you have speedup. But this is not a normal vanilla- style romhack. You really can't play it like one.
Hey! You've already seen this cutscene. Would you like to skip it?
Haha! Now this one's mine too! Bye bye!
Help! All my friends are drowning!
Yes, the other Butterfree was Ash's. People somehow miss that.
PANPOUR used BUBBLE!
Are you REALLY sure?
{PLAYER} obtained the CHEESE!
REGIELEKI: Bzzzt!
Aww man… I was really enjoying being in that cave. It was so dark in there, no one could look at me!
Hey, TRAINER! You been using your RUMOR LOG? If I'm not sure what to do, I'll pull it up first thing. Helps me keep track of everything. Once you've figured a RUMOR out, a check will appear to mark it off. Use that feature to be sure you're not missing anything!
Hey, you! Wanna pull our little scam?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm enjoying some time off on the beach. It's always nice to take a rest. But never mind that. How about you take one too?
It seems he's still asleep.
The door does not respond.
Pokemon Clover did the 10,000 Light Year thing better and I'm so mad about it.
{PLAYER} put the other SESAME SEED in the SANDWICH CASE.
Welcome to the POKéMON GLOBAL LINK website! Would you like to connect to the DREAM WORLD?
I'm studying BRAIDS as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Pit jumpscare! I had to manually set each and every one of these tiles one-by-one Please never make me do that again.
Deal with the shit bricks, Archie.
The SAIL FOSSIL was taken…
POKéKID: Huh? Where'd that guy go?
This looks like an NES, but it's actually a very fancy GAMECUBE!
Aww, man. All these fences are see-through! Oh well.
The KANGASKHAN breathes a sigh of relief.
{PLAYER} wrote down the secret message…
There is a small hole in the wall.
I have a second DAD here for a very specific purpose: In the upcoming AJ fight, I need the player to try WATER GUN on the Sandshrew. However, many players will have a fainted Charmander by now. Thus, DAD is here to make sure you can get annoyed by Water Absorb.
…?
Of all the dumb nonsense that decomp made available to me, I'm so glad I could do this stupid bit.
Gwahaha! This PLANT got what was coming! The main reactor used to run on URANIUM, but not anymore! The DMCA made sure to take it down! I love providing a public service. We do so much good in the world!
Allow me to heal your POKéMON.
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
{PLAYER} looked a little closer… … … … {PAUSE 20} …Aha! He was hiding the PICKLES under his tongue the whole time!
That's the basement. Trust me, you don't wanna go down.
Digletts' Cave is WAY shorter than in vanilla. I absolutely hate running through this place, so I needed to make it better.
Hey! Hey! I got one!! Haha, that fool didn't know what hit 'em. Let's see our prize…
There's an email message here… We are deeply sorry for the delay on the delivery of your package. It was sadly lost in transit. As an apology, please accept this coupon for 40% off your next order! KANTO CHILD DELIVERY SERVICE
I always send my most valuable POKéMON through WONDER TRADE. That way, the person on the other side is getting something special! Now! Let's see what I get today…
TRAINER TIPS Your POKéDEX will tell you how many POKéMON are available to you. It even updates automatically! Try it before and after entering the grass!
I'm the younger HAIRCUT brother. If you'd like, I could try to give one of your POKéMON a small trim?
The BRICKS have been BREAKED.
I can't tell if anyone besides me thinks the fishing guru's brother bit is actually funny.
OMANYTE by Lichen SLOWPOKE by Raw Meat Arrow
LOST TOWER
This bit is, like, the pure essence of this hack. It “hurts” you, but it's not like you actually ever used the Sitrus Berries anyway. So it's only really mean if you look at the principle of it. The player isn't actually hurt.
The IRON CURTAIN is hanging on the wall.
WARDEN: Lovely! And I know that you helped as well. Thank you so much, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER!
It looks kinda like a palm tree, if you look at it from the right angle. But it certainly doesn't look like OAK… …does it?
Hi! I have a bit of spending money left over. I'll just take a few DOLLS. The craftsmanship is lovely!
The FISHING GURU'S BROTHER's house
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
When the time eventually comes and you're able to catch Mr Mime, I hope people remember the trade here I get the feeling that everyone is gonna forget and get stuck. Oh well.
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
Hey, wait... Wasn't there another researcher over there a second ago? Where'd he go?
{PLAYER} put the BLACKGLASSES in the ITEMS pocket.
If you think finding the W Emblem is a bit odd, that's okay. This is just a secret method! Later in the game there'll be a more comprehensive quest to get in.
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
You're loaded with stuff! Drop some of it off first.
Oh, you didn't want that other CHARMANDER? That's okay - this one is still an option!
Memorial BENCH for the small child repeatedly punched on this shore. May he forever live in our hearts.
Oh no... I left my keys someplace, and I have no idea where. I'm sure they're not here in town. Guess I'm stuck out here.
Oops
NIDOTRAN♂: Gwaaa!
All travel from CERULEAN CITY is bottlenecked by one single tile. Unfortunately, someone decided to plant a tree there for Arbor Day.
There! All stocked up!
{PLAYER} used false pretenses to obtain the SESAME SEED!
Oh… You can't afford one? Darn! That's okay, though. Maybe you'll get one next time!
Ah, I understand. I need to take responsibility. Thank you for telling me. I'll figure something out.
Nope! This window, along with all others, has no flavor text!
Putting a ledge here to block the expected item pickup was so clever. It's one of the myriad ways this hack subtly fucks with you. I feel it isn't appreciated enough!
Fun fact: These guys function using the Day Care system! When you give one of them a mon, it deposits it into the day care. Then when you walk to the other guy the mon you give is also put into the day care, and the other mon is taken out! This gives the impression of them swapping a mon between each other.
ASH: All right, PIKACHU! I can't wait to watch the dance!
Hopefully the door will find a new home.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I really want to challenge that GYM over there, but I can't! I don't know how to swim! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
I had to remove the grass here to let Mr. Mime spawn over there. It's not like there's anything of note here in vanilla anyway.
I study GRADES as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Pssst… Hey! C'mere! Don't tell any of the DMCA guys, but I have a secret! There's a way into SILPH CO. from behind. You just gotta find the back door! If you need somewhere safe, you can duck in!
Adding a PC into a cave was actually really obnoxious. The turn on the PC animation is tied to the tile ID and it only works for indoor maps by default. I needed to edit the outdoor tileset so that the PC lined up perfectly with the indoor one.
Several hours later…
TRAINER TIPS There's actually five different solutions to that fight! Which one did you find?
{PLAYER} got the tricked-up SLOWPOKE!
{PLAYER} took the SITRUS BERRIES out of the BERRY POUCH.
100% Look-proof glass! Satisfaction guaranteed!
What is this area for, I wonder? And why is there a PC here, of all things? Excellent questions! Stay tuned!
Hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. Congrats on finding this place! Unfortunately it's still under construction. None of the scripts are done yet! Still, good job getting here! Keep it in mind for later!
Trust me - You'll thank me later!
I'm the owner of the SEASIDE HOUSE. You can call me Mx. SEA! We got a special drink in from CELADON GYM. They say it's a real doozy! If you can defeat all the TRAINERS here, I'll reward your efforts!
Oh, hey! Is that a MACHO BRACE? That lets you double your EEVEE gain! Have another!
Here lies the BERRY POWDER MAN. May he rest in peace.
This POISON is even more potent than usual! Your HP will drain ten times as fast in the overworld Mwahaha!
... ... ... ... ... ...Oh no.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm working my side job as a security guard. Can't let you pass without a BIKE! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
I'm stuck here! This SLOWBRO BLOCKED me in!
People often lose things in the darkness of the UNDERGROUND PATH.
Hey, you! Listen here! I wanna scam someone out of a good trade. We'll both make out like bandits! Whaddya say? Are you in?
Oh, hey there! I was planning on leaving, but I got tired. Thanks for catching back up with me, though! Here's a gift!
I swapped the entrance and exit of this part of the cave. I didn't like how it felt with the Lass Island there when you enter. Such is the minutia of detail that goes into pacing a map well!
WARDEN: Oh, lovely! Looks like you're all wrapped up. Those DMCA fiends were no match for you! From the bottom of my heart, thank you. You've saved my life's work.
The Mountains
Mx. SEA: There's no greater gift than full autonomy over yourself. Take control of your own needs and well-being!
DAZZLE: My name is DAZZLE! And I collect STAR PIECES! The more I collect the happier I am! So, guy, if you have any STAR PIECES I'll trade you a BADGE for them! Yay!
… You moved the girl out of the way and then you- …{PAUSE 20}C'mon, man…
This is an homage to POKéMON MY ASS version. I haven't actually played it, and I can't say I really care to, but I will still pay my respects to those who came before me.
I strongly recommend going around and catching as much as you can. POKé BALLS have guaranteed catch rates in this hack, so it's easy! Trust me, you'll thank me later.
LUCAS: Oh! Hey, there! By chance do you happen to have a FINNEON? Would you be willing to, uh, trade it for my MAGIKARP?
Oh, that's it! Yes! Haha, sucker! …Er, I mean… Yes, very good! I, uh, don't have a SUPER ROD for you, but here! This is what you get! Take it or leave it!
Hi, what's your name? ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Okay. That's nice! My name is KIRI. My mommy and daddy named me that so I would grow healthy and happy. That's what they wished. My daddy really loves this POKéMON. You can have it as a gift!
Hello, challenger! I am SPENSER of the BATTLE PALACE. I give my POKéMON freedom to choose their own MOVES. I put full faith in their choices.
DUGTRIO by FeelgoodInk GOLBAT by Plasto MAGIKARP by Boba Tea
setting flag
The door is locked...
Aight boys, let's get to it!
The DELIBIRD stayed awake thanks to its VITAL SPIRIT!
Hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. Y'know, that GYM would've been much easier if you'd just let your NIDOs evolve. You really went that far to avoid supporting trans people? Damn! Well, I have news for you: MANKEY still says TRANS RIGHTS! Take this, you scumbag! :)
I love how this guy will fuck with you if you try arranging your box by Pokedex number.
He missed.
The sprite and description of the CRYSTAL BERRY are from Paper Mario!
It took me quite a few tries to get a line for this secret that wasn't creepy or gross. I don't wanna punch down on folks. I'm very committed to that.
Hmm, looks like we forgot about him.
Very sneaky of you to find here! Don't worry about this - you'll understand eventually.
I love the puzzle of putting the gym in the escalator here. My design mantra in this hack is that all rules are just guidelines. Almost everything has an exception. In this case, the player assumes that all Centers send you back down. It's an expectation I build for you just so I can later break it.
Too bad! There's no TM CASE…
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
DELIBIRD: Ca-craaaa!
I wrote that line in 2021, when hating Puff gameplay was cool. I now rescind my statement because Puff is (sometimes) kinda sick.
Nope! There's only trash here.
MR. FUJI: CUBONE's MOTHER has been taken away by the DMCA. Even still, I'll help you.
DINA: I eat glue.
{PLAYER} dug out a SLOWPOKE!
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
It's an extraordinarily expensive hobbyist nuclear reactor.
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
I'm sure I will update this guy's rant every time a new game releases. Pokemon fans are sadly impossible to please. sidenote: Gen IX is the best fuck you fight me.
It's OAK's specially-ordered GS BALL! Take it?
Hey, there! Do you happen to have a MAGNEMITE? I actually have two MAGNEMITES here with me right now. We're just one away from evolving! But, it looks like there aren't any wild ones here anymore. If you ever catch a MAGNEMITE, do you think you could bring it here? That way, we can evolve together! I'll be waiting for you!
Oh no! The PSYDUCK PAIL is totally empty! Looks like it's got a hole in the bottom…
This is the item that made me start putting Hboxes all over the place. I needed SOMETHING funny for going through all the effort to get this item early. And thus, most random items that are out-of-the way will now scream FUCK at you.
Hiya! I'm CELIA, the creator! Wow, you sure did beat that fight without getting BUTTERFREE! That, uh… impressive? Y'know, there was an easier way to do it. One that doesn't involve grinding. Oh, who am I kidding. You already knew that, didn't you? Well, if you're so insistent on getting through via levels, here! I have a gift for you!
Strong contender for best cutscene in the hack.
There's an invisible object in the way. Would you like to use the DEVON SCOPE?
In RBY, this guy says “CATERPIE can't cut it!” In FRLG, this guy says “CATERPIE can't hack it!” I simply continued the trend.
DAUMAN: Oh? You're back for more?
SUSAN: Grr… Everyone! We need to RETREAT! Let's get out of here!
{PLAYER} picked up the VULPIX!
birds idk
Oh! Um, sorry about that. Uhh... let me check.
Every time I fly here, I shout “Step on the kid!”
{PLAYER} obtained the SCYTHER from the disgruntled boy(?)!
I have a whole lecture about this. Be ready: There's many theories as to Jynx's original inspiration. Some cite the Ganguro fashion, some say it's a Yama-uba or Yuki-onna. Personally, I'm skeptical of those. Ganguro wasn't big until after RBY so the timeline doesn't work out. The yokai are more plausible, but I have a more likely explanation. Based on its usage in the anime as Santa's servant, I think it's bad faith to act like Game Freak had NO idea of Jynx's racial similatities. However, I believe that there's an origin that explains everything: I think Jynx is based on theater.
I had two major roadblocks in demo 3: I wanted the GTS to be somewhere, and I had no clue what to do with the LIGHTHOUSE. Shoving it here solved both problems!
A glass of nice, frothy APPLE JUICE!
I definitely think through my map design.
Another year, another successful POKéMANIAC CONVENTION! Hopefully next time they won't shove us all into a cave.
LUCARIO: Carrr?
The idea of just casually dropping ZAPDOS to anyone who decides to actually come back here is so good. I don't have much to say - I just think it's extremely funny.
An action game! They need to tighten up the graphics on LEVEL 3.
He's dead.
“FOR SALE” Sign!{PAUSE 30} For sale!
Did you know that FRLG doesn't natively have an upwards-facing cave entrance? I had to make this one!
FURRET: Bwaah!
Ah! Wonderful news! Okay, you're good to go! Thanks so much!
One of my favorite bits of flavor text
SALLY: Hiya! I'm SALLY. I'm looking on the seashore for things to sell. It's fun!
C'mon, man... That's not cool.
There's a BRICK wall in the way.
LANCE: Ah… Ahem.
Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo!
What a shame... Well, if you ever find time, I'm sure to make it worth your while.
… … … … … … … … … … …Aha!
Did you remember to check out ROUTE 22? It's west of VIRIDIAN. There's some POKéMON there to catch as well!
SAFARI ZONE MAIN STADIUM
{PLAYER} kicked the man.
It's a hobbyist nuclear reactor, but it seems to be malfunctioning.
…But he really likes your outfit!
I get my kicks by harassing people with my stinking POKéMON. They're great for startling people. And, they bite, too.
I love the slow descent into insanity as the randomizer goes deeper. The fact that the NPCs in this world are just regular people just trying to get by is so funny to me.
TRAINER TIPS Talk to her again!
Several hours later…
I will not elaborate on why this guy is here.
Oh dearie me… What is all that racket coming from upstairs?
Hey! Why'd you put her back? Now I can't see!
DICK BRIDGE This bridge is DICK.
Oh! Hello there, {PLAYER}! Looks like you're here a little early. Uhh, we actually aren't quite ready for you yet. I don't suppose you could go and finish the rest of the game while we get everything set up?
As much fun as the pokerap is, I'd never force someone to do all of it The joke here is that this stretch in Kanto is basically just a giant line of trainers. I just put them a little closer together.
This area is almost fully blocked off unless you go out of your way to catch the statue mons. For the 2% of you who found the other way in, I hope I didn't just spoil you!
You see a small note on the ground… “Who are you thieves who keep stealing my RARE CANDIES? Just go buy some for yourself!”
If you want our prize, you'll need to come back with a TM CASE. In the meantime, I'll wait right here.
Adding a P Emblem to the W and L gives you 8 costumes in total! Which one is your favorite?
Hey! Everything else you have is dead! This is a really obscure text box. Good job finding it!
{PLAYER} laid in the bed…
The number of people who would just flat out ignore the candies in the mart, I swear to god. I needed to add this NPC just to maybe get people to realize that they were there.
Hey there, Champ in the making! I'm glad you found our club! Welcome to the LGBT Community Center, otherwise known as CELADON GYM! Our president and chairwoman is ERIKA. She's been keeping our community affirming and inclusive while also being an expert at POKéMON! She's not one to be taken lightly!
Oh, please! Help me! My daughter wandered into the forest, and she hasn't come out! Could you please make sure she's safe?
The DMCA have been chased out, but KANGASKHAN is still trapped… It's all right, though. She's a fierce one. I bet she's planning an escape. Maybe we can give her something to help out!
I've put your POKéMON up on the TRADE network. I'll let you know if we get a hit!
DAZZLE: Yes! Let's trade!
Hey!
Come on, gang! Let's bring this up.
Come back here if you'd like to teach your POKéMON a MOVE.
I'm gonna play pretend. I'll be the queen of this castle! Do you wanna play with me? My mommy won't be back for a while.
These are my GLASSES! Thanks so much for finding them! ... ... ... Uh, why'd you put them in your BAG? Aren't you gonna give them back?
No grass in the safari zone! Too bad!
WARDEN: Ah, it's {PLAYER}! So lovely to see you. Thank you again for your help. All of FUSCHIA is in your debt!
The memorial broke.
Name: KANGASKHAN Ours ran away.
The only reason Snorlax is moved so close to the city is because there's a guardhouse here normally. I was too lazy to think of anything interesting to put there, so I killed it.
Also, don't forget to check the grass in VIRIDIAN CITY! There's something to catch there too!
Y'know, this randomness was really fun for a minute, but now I just wanna go outside… Who even did this, anyway?
Volcano Bakemeat is a line from Pokemon Vietnamese Crystal, a bootleg English translation. Don't worry, VC fans! I'm not gonna forget “I AM A MONSTER COACH.”
There are three kinds of people who see SPEARONOLACTONE: 1. LGBT folks, who INSTANTLY know what it means. 2. Non-queer folks, who will get EXTREMELY confused. 3. People who aren't queer but can google spironolactone. These are the funniest. The first google result talks about how it's a water pill. Thus, they assume it's about peeing! As any trans person could tell you, however, that's not QUITE it!
Toedscool is one of the most interesting puzzles in the hack. Everything from starting with the running shoes from the start, to the aide giving them as a key item, to the NPC in the pokemon center. I needed to plant the idea in your head that maybe - just maybe! - something so stupid could work.
KHAKI: Hey, JACKIE… Are you sure you're doing okay?
Hello! Are you in charge around here? I'm from the KANTO LIGHTHOUSE POWER GRID REPAIR SERVICE. I'm here to fix the electricity. …Oh, you've already fixed the power problem? Uh Great to hear! Less work for me. I'm sure the folks down at the LIGHTHOUSE are back in business!
You can retreat back and forth from the other side of Mt Moon. I have no clue if this is made clear Hopefully people are able to figure it out, cuz I haven't playtested that puzzle!
Entered the purified and protected zone. {PAUSE 45}…Again. {PLAYER}'s POKéMON were fully healed.
It's no longer OAK…
The RADIO TOWER here was broadcasting illegal material! I say good riddance!
I hate this map too.
Your PC now has new WALLPAPERS! Neat!
… … … …
This guy is from Paper Mario TTYD! He trades a badge for a star piece. Have you found how to get his BADGE?
SKIRT go spinny!
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator. Hey, that was a good deed you just did! I'm proud of you!
Another EEVEE in tow, and he's none the wiser. Let's leave before he's awake!
Technology is incredible! Now even grandpa can put POKéMON in the PC!
Something about this tree in particular feels... off. Would you like to WATER it?
{FONT_SMALL}Just when I thought I had a nice {FONT_SMALL}place to myself! {FONT_SMALL}Later, kid. {FONT_SMALL}I got better things to do!
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
{PLAYER} stepped in the melted guard! Yuck!
Why, hello! I'm a STATISTICIAN! I'm conducting a survey to analyze average annual spider consumption. Do you have a minute to answer some questions?
{PLAYER} obtained the PICKLES!
{PLAYER} inserted the MYSTIC SEAL…
{PLAYER} inserted the HOUSE KEY into the keyhole...
You'll know what to do with it. I believe in you.
Oh… {PAUSE 20}I'm sorry, but the answer was actually No. Too bad!
SOPHOCLES: …And that's just the tip of the iceberg!
WARNING! Be sure to savestate frequently!
JAMES: Oh, JESSIE… I think this time, our disguises may have been a bit too on-the-nose… Still, I didn't expect to be thrown in jail like this! These DMCA fiends are more dastardly than us!
Aight, listen up! Here's the perfect SANDWICH: A fresh loaf of BREAD! Coated in SESAME SEEDS! Hearty cuts of MEAT, alongside a lovely slice of CHEESE! Some LETTUCE that's been very freshly CUT! And to top it off: Crunchy, flavorful PICKLES! Bring all of these together, and you'll have the perfect food!
{PLAYER} discovered a POKéMON SIGN!
Now the only thing I'm still concerned about is…
Oops
This patch of dirt is interactable!
It's the POKéMON COLOSSEUM bonus disc! This save file already recieved the JIRACHI. Too bad!
I sell LEMONADE as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
I'm kinda sad that most people grab the float stone before talking to this kid. For what it's worth, he doesn't say anything interesting.
I'm wearing SHADES as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
We got one! Ayy! Wait, your party's full. Go clear it out!
Hmm, looks like there's no trade today. Darn!
I'm studying SPADES as this guy's POKéMON.
Shelf after shelf filled with various copies of My Secret Life.
It's POKéMON CHANNEL!
DUSCLOPS used TOXIC!
Hiya! Uh, I'm CELIA the creator. I think that ITEM isn't playing nicely with your BAG. D'ya mind if I have it back?
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator! Good job on beating SURGE! But uh, actually... Hey Mr. SURGE? Could we talk for a sec?
Wow! ETERNATUS unleashed its energy!
HIPPOPOTAS: Po-prra…!
For some reason, this tree in particular feels… off.
Want me to let you in on a secret? I don't think any of these slot machines actually work. I'm pretty sure they're just painted over with pretty colors.
DAD JR.: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Wow, this island sure is lovely. It's bringing out my inner child! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
… You knew you were looking at me, didn't you?
SATURN: Mwahaha! TEAM GALACTIC cannot be stopped! Boing!
Hmm… We had a special show set up with our light stands. Without POWER, we can't do it. Hopefully the POWER PLANT will come back on soon…
Fun fact, this guy's been here since before Steamboat Willy was public domain! Originally he was just a guy with the Pikachu clones, but when that fiasco happened, I capitalized on it
Nope, you can't get up here lol
This guy here had the first line of dialogue I ever wrote. In the VERY first draft of the hack, he was the ONLY indication that something was up with Caterpie. This was before there were jokes, so people just skipped over him. Basically, the only reason this hack has any comedy at all is because I needed to get people to talk to this one NPC.
So you've made it through me. Big deal! You'll never make it all the way to my FATHER!
A perfectly-sized fork recepticle.
BUGSY: Hey! Get off me!
People had a LOT of trouble finding the gold teeth. If you keep coming in here and not finding them, a giant sign appears pointing at them.
Error1: Does not match request. Trade declined.
A stump sits in front of the gate.
Hey! Don't make those POKéMON appear!
{PLAYER} obtained a comically-strong CATERPIE!
I told him this was a bad idea. Oh well!
SPENSER: Hrrm… I had the same luck in my low-level challenge run.
TRAINER TIPS CATERPIE evolves into a butterfly, and WEEDLE evolves into a bee!
Do you remember the grass by the OLD MAN in VIRIDIAN CITY? There's actually a POKéMON to catch in there!
The white sesame seed walks back and forth on the ground here, to make sure you don't miss her. I tried my hardest to make “look for one single off color pixel” not as annoying as it coulda been.
{PLAYER} found a STARMIE!
The door is locked.
Now see here, DUSCLOPS. You cannot simply attack any TRAINER who comes in! It's quite unbefitting of you.
…Huh? No, I am BRANDON. BRENDAN is the kid next door. People get us mixed up all the time.
This is one of very, very few completely unchanged maps! There's literally nothing new in here, but there doesn't have to be. It does what it needs to do.
no
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm looking through these trash cans to find the secret switches. Maybe it's in here… ...Nope! Nothing but trash! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
In vanilla, someone really did leave their keys here! That's what inspired the quest. I guess you're just a little bit sneakier in this hack.
DAD is my response to the Mother 3 save frogs. I like putting him in various silly situations just for fun.
What, you're not in? Gimme a break! Fine. Come back if you change your mind.
Ah, excellent! On whom should I practice my craft?
The clock is stopped… Too bad there's no way to start it!
Hi! Unfortuantely I haven't put this quest in yet. Sorry!
Traditional American Bakery!
A BLUE FLUTE is a most wonderful item, huff-puff. Playing it will awaken any sleeping POKéMON, huff-puff!
I couldn't decide if I should write this Route as 1 or 2 new mons. Whichever way I chose, it would confuse people cuz Puff was static. Thus, I decided to make a joke out of it to make sure it was clear!
PLASTO: damn
It's a life-sized doll shaped like a POKéMON! How cool!
You think all the TMs laying on the ground are free pickings? If you want a TRADEMARK, you have to work hard and earn it! (or be born rich and buy a company)
PRA: Oh yeah, Math! I love that one. Especially because there's no letters in it!
PHISHING GURU: Huh-!? Wha- How'd you know that?
It was surprisingly obnoxious to get the secret garden bit working. When you enter Bill's house, you can BARELY see the grass for a second. In vanilla FRLG, there's actually no path north at all. I guess they removed it since RBY.
I really like the new scene where the shiny rat explodes the old man. Admittedly, it kinda breaks the joke with Weedle being wild here. Alas! I'm not compromising on only 2 POKéMON in Viridian Forest, so this discrepancy will have to stay.
Technology is incredible! Now you can have a PC in the middle of a cave!
{PLAYER} inserted the VALOR SEAL…
HEALING ROOM Give your POKéMON a full rest! Notice! This room is found to be violating the Geneva Conventions. Please proceed with caution.
Here, take your EEVEE.
At one point in development, I accidentally replaced all newspapers with NES's. I could've changed them back, but where's the fun in that?
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
I tried really hard to make a joke where the guy and the gyara would switch between chasing each other. I wanted to take advantage of how the game loads sprites based on your screen position. Sadly I couldn't get it to work consistently.
There's supposed to be an extremely rare POKéMON in that grass. I'd really love to find it, but that guy keeps spraying REPEL everywhere!
Charmeleon by Sky Ankou Wartortle by The Scrub
Oh, yay! The POWER's back on! We have a great display down there. Why don't you check it out?
Haha! Welcome to SAFFRON CITY! Now officially under DMCA control! ...Huh? Where's the music? That song was infringing on both PEWTER and FUSHCIA! It had to go!
This bridge was drawn by my good friend LIAM DICK!
This gate ensures that the player gets the bike before finishing Celadon. I wonder why!
Hiding this area behind the world's most hidden bench is so cool. You need to dig DEEP if you wanna find it.
RavePossum: I keep asking CELIA for water, but all she ever brings me is more code to review…
Oh, your party's full… This guy isn't technically mine, so I can't send him to the PC for you. Come back after you've dropped someone off.
I wanted to make this girl a recurring character for later. I decided she needed to come back early so the player keeps her in mind
ZIGZAGOON: Guguu?
It looks like a GAMECUBE. … … … There is no reason to suspect that it's anything else.
GUTS ROOM This room can easily be cheesed if you want. But, like… please don't? Thanks :)
Anyway... You seem to be someone who likes to try stuff to see what happens. I have another idea for you...
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? What? Of course I'm in all of these. Why d'ya think it's a REST house? Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
CUBONE was one of my students after school. I ran the extra-curriculars, see. This one was always his favorite. You should take it.
Aww… You're no fun.
The traditional AMERICAN cuisine here is amazing! I think the DONUTS are extra good if you put them in the toaster first. It gets 'em nice and crispy!
Uh, wow! You really wanna go down there. All right, if you insist! Just remember to savestate frequently!
Oh, that POKéMON doesn't look like it needs a haircut…
SILPH CO. Back Door
Um. That didn't quite work as planned.
Hey! There's a switch under the trash! Turn it on!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Gee, it's such a lovely day we're having down here! It's so bright and sunny! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Why yes, that WAS the national anthem of Kenya.
New Demo 2.5 puzzle! I wanted to emphasize the benches a lot more going forward, so I added this here. Hopefully players will now remember that Retreat exists!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hey, you'd better watch out for the holes in the floor. I wouldn't want you to get hurt! Anyway, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
For those who don't know: The twins are trying a credits warp. Sadly, they have the items on their Pokemon wrong, so it doesn't work.
This arranging for mother is no longer adept. Volcano Bakemeat?
Originally, I wanted to have the music here be Back To The Lab, but playing over the Oak theme. Sadly, the joke didn't come through very well, so I kept it vanilla.
Originally this was a solo project, but when I switched to decomp I accrued a bit of a team. I'm very grateful to everyone for all the help I've gotten!
My daddy hasn't come home from work in a while. I see people from the city walking in and out of those buildings, though.
A POKéMON inside would like to join you!
Boxes and boxes of unused ideas!
I think this is the funniest single line of dialogue in the hack.
Hiya! I'm CELIA, the creator! This is the end of DEMO 3! Thank you for playing! Surf will be unusable until the full release of the game. Stay tuned! In the meantime, try to fill out your POKéDEX! I recommend that you have 87 POKéMON caught right now. The most you can have is 103! Plus, there's plenty of secrets to find if you know where to look! Try everything you can think of - You're likely to be rewarded! Anyway, thank you so much for playing! I hope you had fun!
PLACEHOLDER two island intro
Too bad! The COIN CASE is full!
MAX: Hello! My name is MAX. Behind me is a very important LOCK. No one is allowed to touch it.
Hey again! Do you have a MAGNEMITE yet? Me and my two MAGNEMITES are gonna wait here for you so we can evolve. Be sure to come back when you find one!
Aww… You're no fun.
If you stand along the wall, you can see the PC on the other side. I'd rather players not see it early, so I changed the layout of the rocks by the ladder. This new way pushes the player to walking right and not against the wall.
For a while, this guy directly said “Use a TM!” I didn't like that cuz it made the solution WAY too obvious. But without him, people got stuck.
VULPIX: P-prrrah?
The pedestal is engraved with the number one.
The pedestal is engraved with the number three.
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
I gave the guy next door my TRAINER ID. He said he'd give me a cool prize. I think that might've been a bad idea…
This is a reference to Beating Fire Red While Blind And Deaf! To beat Brock, he had to grind vs this guy's first Pokemon and then immediately faint. He repeated this for weeks. I'm guessing the experience gave this kid a bit of an ego.
This POKéMON is the worst. Compared to everyone else, it looks at me twice as hard!
It could be argued that this is the worst part of the hack. Certainly it has the least going on. However, I think some relative calm is important after the clusterfuck that is the opening thru the Parcel.
I put the sesame seed directly in the path between Dad and the sign This is to force the player to bump into it in case they don't see the black pixel.
FURRET is walking!
DAUMAN: That? That's your answer to us? Ha! Get out of my sight. I have nothing more to say.
All right, here's your order! 20 cases of GENDER FLUID!
{PLAYER} opened the present.
DAD: Whoa! Catch your breath, man!
BERRY FOREST New Wild POKéMON: 1
Hiya! Great job finding this place! Unfortunately, the scripts here don't actually work yet. Sorry! Stay tuned for the next update!
Something about this tree in particular feels... off. Would you like to WATER it?
No! You can't do that! The square root operator will only resolve to the principal definition! That answer is technically wrong!
Did you notice that Dad here is the Rap's entry for Mr. Mime?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I just arrived at my friend BILL'S house. He doesn't seem to be home, though… Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I'm making some delicious AMERICAN sandwiches. Nothing beats the classics! Anyway, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
There was once a sign here because the computer was broken. However, now the computer is fixed, so the sign was removed. Despite this, you feel compelled to check this patch of grass. Interesting.
A yellow bike!
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
Fuck Nintendo. Uranium wasn't really my thing, but fuck them for taking it down.
{PLAYER} obtained the freshly-baked DACHSBUN!
If you know you know.
Why hello, there! What an excellent show, huff-puff! Back in my home region, I was an esteemed glassworker, huff-puff. Seeing such a beautiful performance inspired my inner craftsman. I wish to create again, huff-puff. Here! Take this, huff-puff!
Our ADMIN up ahead has an invincible POKéMON! It's immune to both physical AND special attacks. You'll never get through!
Nope! There's only trash here.
…Aha! We got one! Nice!
The joke with Misty is the ONLY reason Cerulean is card-themed. Also, I was utterly terrified that the joke would be going too far, and that I'd get my hack banned. Thankfully, people seem to get that it's just an uncomfortable joke. Let it be known that all I did to the sprite was add a Staryu to it. I did not remove ANYTHING. I was extremely strict about that, and you can tell cuz the sprite is kinda wonky in one of the arms.
WARDEN: Ah howhee ho hoo… Eef ee hafahi ho. Aah weef heaa?
{STR_VAR_1} was burned!
MR. FUJI: Ah, my dear KANGASKHAN! You're finally safe.
For sale!{PAUSE 30} “FOR SALE” Sign!
please don't question why the lighthouse was still built on top of the gts i needed this
A small research tent has been haphazardly set up. It's not much of a looker.
Hey! Hey! I got one!! Haha, that fool didn't know what hit 'em. Let's see our prize…
This guy has a LEVEL 1 GASTLY in his team. It's supposed to be a reference to the infamously awful Base Set card. Arguably the worst card ever made. However, because the card itself is technically Level 8, people get confused on what it's referencing. Sadly, when I set the mon to just be level 8, players don't notice that there's a joke there at all!
Hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. You really want another EEVEE? Uh... Sure, I guess.
Yuck! Shouldn't have looked!
Hello. Are you a visitor? My family recently moved here. My SON should be arriving shortly. His FATHER is the GYM LEADER, see. I hope his trip went safely…
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing back here? Be careful not to get stuck. Once you jump down here, that's it! Say, one of the kind young men in that cave came by. He had this POKéMON with him. He seemed to really like it. I think you would too! Here, catch!
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, this hack's creator. Sorry to inturrupt, but I noticed something and had to pop in.
58,786,253,730,000,000 miles later…
DRATINI by Cookie GROWLITHE by Jogaklaa
Uh. I hope he's okay.
Sorry! Each save file only gets one! Replay the hack up to this point if you want another one!
Nope! There's only trash here.
{PLAYER} put the SESAME SEED in the SANDWICH CASE.
So the whole idea of MT. MOON was supposed to be the player using their BUTTERFREE. And then, at the end Miguel would suddenly have a Dark Type Koffing, and that'd ruin your day. In retrospect, that blueprint isn't actually all that engaging.
The final option has been devoured.
OAK can't surf, silly!
TRAINER TIPS GYM signs will tell you what level you should want for a fight. You won't need to grind anything higher than that!
Nope! There's only trash here.
Hello, GOLD? Yes, this is MOM. I got caught up in another shopping spree… I know I promised I wouldn't. What's that? You're- Settle down! I promise that this time I didn't buy that much! …Huh? What did I buy? Uh, if you check your room, you'll- Oh, you see the DOLLSs there? I thought you'd like them- …What's that? How much did I spend? Funny thing about that, son…
DUSCLOPS used THUNDER WAVE!
What, you didn't seriously think I was gonna give you TAUNT, right? That's the single most Breaks Puzzles move in the game! tsk tsk.
This whole ordeal has everyone in town so lost and confused. If only there were some sort of MAP that showed the layout of the TOWN.
It's not OAK.
An RPG! This one is a clever subversion of clever subversions of the genre!
Ah.
LUCY: … … …
A slightly off-color yellow bike!
This NPC was supposed to be a LASS who walks through to wall at you. However, I couldn't find a way for the joke to fully land. So she got reskinned to Picknicker.
Wonderful news! Thank you so much! I'll even make this easier for you! Come back to me again once you've collected all your BADGES. I'll help you narrow your search. Until then, happy hunting!
Impossible! You must have cheated!
CHARIZARD made by Crow MACHAMP made by The GameJumper623
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
ROUTE 10 NEW WILD POKéMON: 1
The Spearow puzzle to get Cut was actually the first one I designed! It turned into the framework for basically every other puzzle: Break the rules of Pokemon, but in a logical and interesting way.
Bah! This POKéMON won't do! I need a true test of my ability. Bring me a POKéMON whose hair is truly tangled beyond repair!
…Aha! We got one! Nice!
The newly-set door shines with pride.
Hypno by Fayren! ELECTABUZZ by FoF Flareon by FoF
{PLAYER} offered a TRADE!
In vanilla, these are cut trees. I couldn't let you skip the setup to skipping Rock Tunnel, so I made you go around to fight th trainer.
Jagged rocks line the wall.
{PLAYER} found a TM12! It contains TAUNT.
I invested thousands of dollars into copies of this book. No one believed me, but I had faith. Now suddenly it's everywhere, and I made out with millions! I'm telling you, this is the way to get rich quick!
PRA: I eat glue.
One of these doors will tell the truth, and the other always lies! You may ask one question. Choose wisely, or be lost forever!
I hear that sometimes when CLEFAIRY evolves, its SHADOW comes to life.
A logo is printed on the side of the box…
That way goes to a sacred site of the BIRD CULTISTS. Do not test us! If you wish to proceed, you must earn the trust of our PRIEST.
{STR_VAR_1} was poisoned!
I think the LARRY fight might be the most important scene in this whole hack. At first, the battle seems totally unfair. You expect it to just be a troll. But then you realize that actually, you HAVE the tools you need. And to beat him, you need to use the same unfair shit that has been kicking your ass across Route 1. And finally, in turning the game's stupid bullshit against itself, you finally get your first Win. I think there's a certain beauty to that.
I was planning to hop aboard the S.S. ANNE when it arrived in VERMILLION. I wonder what happened to it…
Have you found any pieces of CANDY laying on the ground? I think there's one in every major area. I wonder where they came from!
O-oh-! Oh, my! This POKéMON's hair is, um… I-it's certainly something! I… I don't think I'm up to the task. Maybe ask my BROTHER? He's always up for a challenge.
Y'know, I've always liked the REGI POKéMON. The only people who find them on their own never look at me!
This girl is here to get you to notice the odd candy up there. Whether she's actually looking at something is immaterial.
Grr... D-darn you!
Mx. SEA: Everyone should have the freedom to live the life they need. Only you know what's right for you.
I'm selling LEMONADE as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Yuck! Shouldn't have looked!
… … … … … … … … … …
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? That guy up there has a really scary POKéMON! None of my moves worked on it! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator! I hope you've been enjoying yourself so far! By the way, have you been completing your POKéDEX? I STRONGLY recommend it! My recommendation is to have 38 POKéMON caught right now. The highest you can have is 43!
SEASIDE HOUSE
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I was just on my way to ROCK TUNNEL, but I got stuck. I can't get out! I'd love to let you rest up, but sadly you're on your own for this. Sorry!
KANGASKHAN: Kan-GAAAAA!
Hey!
Mayhaps you're hoping to find some kind of secret? Maybe a hidden SHINY POKéMON will appear for all your efforts?
Error2: Does not match request. Trade declined.
Aww… You're no fun.
OH, FOR PETE'S SAKE. WOULD YOU JUST STOP IT? Hrrrrm. Now I've had it! You've really made me lose my temper now! Fine then. You've made your bed. Now sleep in it!
Hey, where's that music coming from?
NIDORINO: Rrroaah!
WOLFF: Then this fossil shall remain in custody!
Thanks! Now lemme put this up for trade…
Wowie, thanks! That DANCE was so cool! Being short stinks! I can't wait until I grow up… Here, take this. It'll help your POKéMON grow!
I always wondered why you couldn't examine that water in vanilla.
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
Aha! Another passionate CLEFAIRY fan! Here you are!
...But you're gonna try anyway, aren't you?
{PLAYER} successfully collected all the ingredients!
I'm getting LAID as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
My Secret Life, chapter three
Grr… At times like these, kids like you should be locked in a room getting whalloped by the CAPTAIN!
This guy's moves are CRUNCH and PAY DAY.
It took me WAY too long to give this guy a Wurmple. Idk why.
Quick! Connect your GBA!
Yup, Dad is her dad too.
{PLAYER} received their own {STR_VAR_1} from the incompetent scammer!
You spot a small compartment on the floor under the LASS. Let's see what's inside…
MULLY: Ah, Math. I love that one! Especially because there's no letters in it!
Reset number five-thousand, two hundred and forty-six... I swear on my life that I will be the first person to find him... Please, God... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...Sigh. Reset number five-thousand, two hundred and forty-seven...
MAY'S ROOM A private bedroom for the GYM LEADER's child, given with the utmost of care.
Excellent! I welcome your tenacity. Which POKéMON would you like to bring? Choose wisely…
The age-old question of “When you're done with the quest, what should the NPC say?” It plagues every game dev because no one actually checks anyway.
The Potion gag was entirely made as an improvised joke. I didn't expect to actually commit. However, the idea of just casually having the last potion in the whole goddamn universe is really funny.
I'm sorry, but rules are rules. Nobody's allowed to go inside.
{PLAYER} found -2 SITRUS BERRIES!
BROCK: Hey there, {PLAYER}! How've you been? I'm just stocking up on some JELLY DONUTS before hitting the road. Say, you haven't seen my friend ASH around, have you? He went off to LAVENDER to see a dance, but I haven't seen him since…
{PLAYER} received a MANKEY!
In the beta, this guy was a GSC player with five SNORLAXES. His dialogue was making fun of GSC players who get mad at non-GSC players for thinking their tier is stall. While I do broadly agree with my joke before, I switched it out. As a matter of principle, I don't wanna make fun of people for being passionate about what they love.
The MYSTIC SEAL has been inserted.
KANGASKHAN: Kang! Kanga-!!
While designing this map, I just spammed decorations everywhere. I happened to land on two fridges for no real reason, and I thought it was funny enough to keep.
I am LANCE of the ELITE FOUR! {PAUSE 30}…Wait-! No! Don't!
TWO ISLAND This ISLAND stinks!
This is what we got instead.
DITTO by Jogaklaa Cloyster by Sky Ankou Sandshrew by QBCubed
{PLAYER} slathered the bark with HONEY…
Let's be real: These guys are actually right! Slowpoketail WILL cost a ton! Surely this means you should spend your life savings on a png!
FISHING GURU's BROTHER: You defeated the DMCA's POKéMON? Incredible work! But they're still here… We must be rid of them. Go talk to my good friend, the WARDEN. He might be able to help.
Mx. SEA: A whole new style, and a whole new me! Try it for yourself!
That's not LETTUCE, silly!
This POKéMON is terrified of you. He looks ready to run away.
Why is the Angry Video Game Nerd randomly in this cave? No clue!
Welcome to the DMCA GAME CORNER! Unfortunately, all of our machines mysteriously malfunctioned, and we had to remove them all. Thankfully it appears that the replacements we've put out are convincing enough for our regulars!
The BRICKS have been BREAKED.
Three plus Five plus Seven equals? {LEFT_ARROW} 2 {UP_ARROW} 16 {RIGHT_ARROW}15
ERIKA: Thanks so much!
You can keep coming back in if you really want to. Just don't expect me to keep writing new dialogue for you.
Whelp. {PAUSE 30}I warned her.
Nooooo!
Hey, kid! You wanna know what's hot? That's right: SANDWICHES. For breakfast? SANDWICHES. Lunch? SANDWICHES. Dinner? Dessert? Take a guess. There is literally nothing in the world I love more. Here, take this. I need to share my love with you.
KINGLER by Jogaklaa CLEFABLE by SharkGuy WIGGLYTUFF by TigerChimera NIDOKING by Sky_Ankou!
{PLAYER} used the PENCIL ERASER!
Lavender Town elementary school? Now that's odd! I wonder why I'd do that!
PHISHING GURU: Nope! No way! We're not doing that again!
My life as a corporate bootlicker makes me feel so alive!
lim(x{RIGHT_ARROW}0) (ln(1-x) - sin{SQUARED}(x)) / (1 + cos{SQUARED}(x)) = ? {LEFT_ARROW} 1 {UP_ARROW} 0 {RIGHT_ARROW} Limit does not exist
In the DEMO 3 release, I put Mindy here so that players would be able to do her trade early. That way, they'd have access to all the Power Plant content that'd otherwise be locked til later.
I'm a BOB-OMB BUDDY! This is placeholder text! Yay!
By the way… Since you like digging around so much, here's somewhere else to try.
I added new benches on various routes as a way to skip long fights. New players will probably still fight everyone, so they won't mind. However, it lets speedrunners and such skip annoying chunks. Call it Quality of Life!
A curtain depicting a FIRE insignia.
Oh, darn it! I just made it through MT. MOON, but I left my bag at home! Guess it's time to walk all the way back around KANTO…
No problem here.
{PLAYER} flipped a card...
This sign's contents have been taken down due to copyright.
There's a flag that gets set when you check this sign here. What is the flag for? I wonder! You'll just have to stay tuned and see for yourself!
“Please for the love of God do not buy me the fancy gold tombstone.”
...Nope! Nothing but trash!
FURRET is surfing!
Grumble grumble...
The wall is exceptionally normal. Nothing suggests anything out of the ordinary about it. Nonetheless, you feel drawn to it.
Jagged rocks line the wall.
A small crack has been forming in the wall.
{PLAYER}'s BIKE ate the SANDWICH!
WARDEN: Hwoog. Hwoog. Ahm swaaawah.
Huh? The GYM? Sorry, I'm a little busy right now. Go do something else. Trade your POKéMON or whatever.
You're completely correct! Nicely done! Here, take this!
{PLAYER} once again wandered into the purified zone. {PLAYER}'s POKéMON have once again been healed.
And here we get to the first part of the game with REAL puzzles! This is the point where you either think outside the box or give up. Either way, you're not brute forcing you way through any of this.
hi
{PLAYER} discovered a POKéMON SIGN!
If you think about it, fishing is just gambling with extra steps.
Have you ever looked up glitches in the old POKéMON games? There's one called “GLITCH CITY.” I wonder what would happen if you tried going there now!
Ah, you found a POKéMON in the grass? Nicely done!
I hear there's someone in KANTO who lost the keys to his house. Allegedly, he really liked gambling!
Stay tuned!
Ah, lovely! Some fresh ASH, huff-puff! I'll craft you a lovely glass item with this, huff-puff.
Now we just need to put them together. BREAD… MEAT… CHEESE… LETTUCE… uh… Oh! Can't forget the PICKLES! And topped off with a sprinkle of SESAME SEED! After a silly minigame (which Celia shall not be programming)… All done!
MAROWAK by Lichen! KAKUNA by Ankou!
Your candies: {STR_VAR_1} Stack: {STR_VAR_2}
Nooooo! My EEVEE!
Two of my all-time favorite games, TUNIC and OUTER WILDS, hide shortcuts like this. That feeling of “Was this always there???” is great.
Aight boys, let's get to it!
That's the basement. It's where we keep everyone else who's helped us out!
I had to put a second ledge blocking the way here cuz people kept trying to explore the bottom first. The joke doesn't land right when you don't take the top path. Thus, I had to block it.
don't let her see you. savestate frequently
HIPPOPOTAS: Po-prra…!
Hah, great to hear! Now, gimme one of your POKéMON. I'll take care of the rest!
There was ZINC here.
Mr. Mimes being found in the grass here SIGNIFICANTLY predates DAD being a thing. I kinda had to retroactively justify them being out here. By the way: No, you can't catch them yet. Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
You may have defeated us, but that is but one step of your quest. Our LEADER is a master ninja! He is as swift as the wind! Do you truly believe you can take him down?
They say that atop the TOWER awaits a powerful BIRD POKéMON. It comes to roost once a lifetime.
LOOKER: Gah! A civilian's found my camp? This isn't good… Our mission has been compromised. Unless…
I do not understand how people get stuck at Brock.
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Wha-? Hey! {FONT_SMALL}You again?
Are you sure?
She's separated from her child…
I really like trading, but you can't actually do it here in CELADON. Right now, the CABLE CLUB is replaced by a, erm… GAY-BLE CLUB.
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
This guy is NOB OGASAWARA. He's one of the translators. Game Freak used to put an NPC of him in every game, to his dismay.
Okay, that's what I thought.
{PLAYER} obtained the DODUO from the LASS!
Would you like to DRILL through it?
I included one trainer in this gym for every letter of LGBTQAP, but I couldn't think of something for I. Sorry, Intersex community! Y'all are still awesome!
This guy has a unique line if you bring him the PHIONE Egg!
Those DMCA guys have been a real boon to my hustle here. There used to be some kinda “Conservation effort” stopping me from doing my honest work. Bah, to heck with that. I'm here to make a living!
TYPE ROOM A room to test your knowledge of type matchups!
There is an odd tree in the way. Would you like to WATER it?
{PLAYER} obtained the leftover GYARADOS!
Rats! The elevator door's been glued shut!
Name: KANGASKHAN
BALLROOM This room is balls.
WARDEN: … … …
The present is empty.
Hi, there! I just finished CELIA'S STUPID ROMHACK! Fun game - you should try it! By the way… Do you see that guy sitting in the corner behind me? He's been there for a few months. We put out a new demo for a game that's launching soon. I think he really likes it! But… It sounds like he might be counting something, I think? Every 20 minutes it goes up by one. Oh! That gives me an idea! Wanna learn the move COUNTER?
This right here is my thesis statement for this game. If you come away from this hack with nothing else, let it be this: Your creative work is valuable! All art is a conversation, and every voice matters. No one but you has your vision!
… … … … … …
Would you like to toast your JELLY DONUT?
It looks like you're all caught up! Nicely done!
Wahaha! That beast was no match for me! Ahem… Yes. I'm sure your POKéMON is pleased. Thank you for the opportunity to test my mettle. I'll forever cherish the memory.
VIRIDIAN CITY NEW WILD POKéMON: 1
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
Rock Tunnel is awful and unfun and I'm so glad I could skip it.
Ha. How naive. But it's no matter. You're an insignificant vagrant. Just another wayward fly to swat. I'll use the power of the illegal POKéMON to crush you to bits!
TRAINER TIPS! Remember to savestate frequently!
SARA: Oh, where could he be…? {PAUSE 20}Ah! Hello, there. I didn't see you. My name is SARA. I am a humble white sesame seed. Say, by chance have you run into a black sesame seed? His name is ERIK, and I had planned to meet him here. But… Looks like he forgot again. Just like last year… Maybe the two of us aren't meant for each other after all...
FURRET is fucking!
{PLAYER} picked up a SHELLDER!
ROUTE 8 NEW WILD POKéMON: 1 NEW WILD POKéMON at night: 2
Oh… That's okay, I understand.
Glory to the Wing! Praise to the Talon! May we soar forevermore above the plains of despair!
The wall is empty except for a large, truck-shaped hole. Vicious tire treads can be seen making a swift u-turn out.
{PLAYER} caught the gracefully-thrown HORSEA!
FURRET is walking!
Statistically, it's more dangerous than a shark.
The secret door opened!
Uh hum. I sure am glad that was a warp and not a freefall!
Come visit us if you need, uh, not HAMBURGERS.
This tree looks extraordinarily buff. Its biceps could crush your skull. Would you like to dump water on it?
The secret switch inexplicably made the whole statue disappear.
MR. FUJI: Oh, goodness… My name is MR. FUJI. I am the schoolteacher here. Those miserable DMCA are waiting upstairs. They've taken CUBONE'S MOTHER. She was always supportive of the stories our students would write. …Oh? You're planning to help her? All right. Even now, I'm still a TEACHER. I'll help your POKéMON learn moves.
Hi, there! I'm CELIA, the creator! Oh my goodness! You actually read the README! I'm impressed! Unless someone else told you to do this, in which case uhh... Glad you interacted with others! In any case, here's your reward!
Dad is by far my favorite character to write for this hack. Everyone expects it to be some gross sexual joke or whatever, but no. It's just Dad. All he needs to do is show up and say something kinda silly. He's already conceptually so funny, that almost anything I write works.
JAIL This room is for cheaters
Hah, great to hear! Now, gimme one of your POKéMON. I'll take care of the rest!
I stopped buying BIKES when they added the newfangled gear shifting. Back in my day we had to have two different bikes, and we liked it!
Hey!
POKéMON JOURNAL Special Feature: PROF. OAK, the POKéMON tree! PROF. OAK is continuing to grow at a rate of one ring per year!
GENGAR by Derpzones TANGELA by Derpzones SPEAROW by Sky_Ankou GOLDEEN by Lichen!
POTION ROOM This room contains our backup supply of POTIONS. For emergency use only!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Wow, these math questions are really tricky. I hope you've done your homework! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
These floor tiles are all illegal copies of each other!
A friendly face is rising from the ground to meet you. Pet it again?
Uh, hi! I'm CELIA, the creator. Wow, you sure did go through all those trash cans, huh? The door was already open! Well, for going through all the trouble, here's a reward for you! It's the TRASH MASTER MEDAL!
I'm completing the POKéDEX, so I need to trade my GRAVELER! Let's go! ... ... ... WHAT. WHAT ON EARTH DID YOU DO?
Bah! Such cowardice! Fine, then. Be on your way.
SIX: No… N-no! No! Not again!
Ah! Terribly sorry about that. My DUSCLOPS is quite ill-mannered. I only recently acquired him. I'll see to it that he's trained at once.
LICHEN: No! Not into the pit! It buuuuuuuurns!
{PLAYER} received their own {STR_VAR_1} from the incompetent scammer!!
I never said I was good at planning.
KANGASKHAN! She's finally free! Thank goodness. It hurt my heart seeing her stuck.
Alas, OAK isn't over here either.
Hey! There's a second switch under the trash! Let's press it!
Grumble grumble…
Oh? It looks like he has a PRESENT!
There is nothing to look at. You feel scammed.
Oh? One of the CASTLE GUARDS showed up. Looks like it wants in on the picnic as well!
Something about this tree in particular feels... off. Would you like to WATER it?
Sick - Here's the plan: You give me some POKéMON, doesn't matter which. Then, I'll tell people that it's extremely rare and valuable. That way, we get high-value offers! When all's said and done, we'll get something awesome out of it! How about it?
I love making people annoy themselves with their own actions.
Not this again…
Waaah! I wanna go home!
There is a {PLAYER}-sized hole in the wall.
Rats! The POKéMON in the road moved, but… It doesn't actually help me. I was trying to go to The Mountains! Grumble grumble…
Lodged in the trash can are dozens and dozens of SLOWPOKES.
Would you like to DRILL through it?
I don't understand this. If you're a man, and your partner is also a man, wouldn't he be violating your copyright?
For the last time, it's not OAK.
Ah, lovely! Which POKéMON can I try on?
Uh, hi! I work at the DRUGSTORE, and I was supposed to be handing out free HAMBURGERS. However, it seems this is the last HAMBURGER in the known universe. Uh, I guess you can have it.
Aww… I really wanted to watch the show, but I couldn't see anything! Guess I'll need to come back next year.
BUGSY: Phew… Where'd you come from, anyway? You just flew in from the ceiling! … … … … … … … …The heck? You saw some benches and you wanted to… {PAUSE 20}RETREAT to one? What does that even mean? Maybe I still have a long way to go in my BUG-POKéMON studies. Here. If I give you this, will you leave me be?
The door is locked.
DYNAMAX ENERGY now fills the area!
KANGASKHAN: K-khaaaa!
Hi, I'm CELIA! I'm the creator. This is the end of DEMO 2.9! Thank you for playing! If you want more to do, try to fill out your POKéDEX! My reccomendation is to have 69 POKéMON caught right now (nice). The highest possible is 83, but some of them are VERY hard to find. Don't force yourself to finish! Additionally, have you collected all 22 ODD CANDIES? And grabbed both POKéMON SIGNS? Even after doing all that, there's still more to find! But! It's a secret, so no hints! Anyway, thanks again! Good luck!
The statue is blocking your path. It seems there's a switch on the other side.
Hey! Don't look at me!
There's a crack in the wall where REGIELEKI rammed into it.
Managing your ENERGY is super important! That's why CARDS with free RETREAT are so strong. Here, let me show you!
The POWER has been turned on! Would you like to turn it on again anyway?
HITMONLEE by number1jojofan PSYDUCK by danstrider6025
Jagged rocks line the wall.
When the player would fall, they'd always get layered below the oldy In order to fix this, I had to mess with Object Event Subpriority! If you don't know what that means, nice! Neither do I!
{PLAYER} inserted the INSTINCT SEAL…
TAUROS by Jogaklaa WEEDLE by QBCubed! NIDORAN by Misofa
SCROLL ROOM For the time being, feel free to scroll right past.
I made a fatal error on this route in the beta. I accidentally put Vulpix in the grass, even though it's supposed to only be Doduo. That's a legit problem for people reading the signs to find new mons!
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
There's a hidden back room in CERULEAN GYM. Now that you've found all my secrets hidden across KANTO, meet me there. I have something to show you.
DAZZLE: Hey, guy! Do you have a STAR PIECE? I'd love to trade one for a BADGE! … … …
MINDY: Oh, wow! The RAICHU you traded me went and evolved!
I don't really know why people have so much trouble with this. Just talk to the gamecube. Oh well.
That's it! You found the fifth switch! I wonder what'll happen now...
My Secret Life, Chapter 3. I was neither a murder suspect, nor a target for an international spy ...Ha! Gotcha! This is a story from Earthbound, a game I stole many quotes from. I didn't realize at first how utterly obnoxious it was for it to be in literally every bookshelf. But! It was also funny, so I had to keep it.
I'm gonna be honest: I don't actually have a COIN CASE. I'm just hanging out here because I like the music.
WARDEN: The DMCA kidnapped my good friend, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER. He's somewhere in the SAFARI ZONE. If you can find him, he might know what they're looking for. Good luck. I'm sure you can save us!
Y'know, I only ever wanted to be a gardener. I guess this is just what that entails nowadays.
This is me doing my damndest to get people to catch stuff. It's surprisingly hard.
Uh, hello there! I'm a deliveryman for the CELADON Café. They ordered a shipment of EGGs to serve SOFT BOILED, but when I went to deliver them, I wound up here. Here, why don't you take one?
It encouraged kids to write with copyrighted characters. Kids!
Every week on my Discord I see a new person asking if I raised the shiny odds. Nope! They're completely vanilla, haha!
There's NOTHING here. Or wait, maybe there's even less than that...
NOTICE! This POKéMON Center has been found to be an illegal copy of all other POKéMON Centers. As such, the DMCA has demanded the end of its operations. Thank you for understanding.
LAPRAS by Vissery VULPIX by Lichen Pidgeotto by danstrider6025 Rhydon by Sky_Ankou
Ah! It's my good friend, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER! I'm glad to see you're safe.
KABUTO by FoF PARAS by KaizanStarlight HORSEA by FoF
I see you've been making good progress on your POKéDEX. That's good to see! That's what you should be doing! However, I think there's something you missed.
… What the fuck kind of slogan is that?
Here! I think I found one.
There's a crack in the wall where REGIELEKI rammed into it. Would you like to make the hole bigger?
I was supposed to have a SUN team, but… I think I'm doing something wrong.
A large statue of a PENCIL blocks the way. Would you like to use the PENCIL ERASER?
FURRET: Bwaah!
Nope! There's only trash here.
Yeah, yeah. Whatever.
Ah, politics.
SARA: ERIK and I are together, see. But…{PAUSE 20} I'm not so sure anymore. He always forgets about our plans. Maybe it's best if we move on. If you see him, could you bring him to me? We need to talk through this.
Something about this tree in particular feels… off.
I provide that HISTORY BOOK to my students free of charge. Everyone should be able to learn. Incidentally, have you gone to visit the DANCE THEATER? Now that the DMCA are gone, they're free to perform again!
You want nothing more than to see how far my narration spirals down? To see me lose my grip? Hmph. How childish. I won't play that game.
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Wha- Hey! How'd you get in here? I found this nice empty home to move to, livin' all by myself. And then some self-important jerk shoves in and drenches me in water! What's up with that? Man, forget this. You wanna go upstairs? Fine! I'll spread my roots somewhere else!
The VALOR SEAL has been inserted.
Ah, confound it!
Hi, I'm CELIA! I'm the creator. This is the end of DEMO 2.9! Thank you for playing! I see that you've been doing a good job filling up the POKéDEX. Nicely done! As a reward, I have a secret to share with you: A preview for DEMO 3! This is a rough draft so I can get feedback before the full release. I hope you have fun!
I wish eating CANDY all day would make me grow up faster. It's not fair…
Ahoy, there! Uh, how's it going? Say, is there any chance you could call for some help? I've been trapped here for weeks!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing back here? Be careful not to get stuck. Once you jump down here, that's it! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Ooooh… Look at this cool floaty rock!
Hi there! This is CELIA, the creator! I saw that you got yourself a little stuck there. That's okay, I've done that too. I hope this teaches you a valuable lesson about being careful! Also, I noticed that you turned on a walk-through-walls code to escape? I'm not gonna judge you for that, but I do think this hack is more fun if you turn that off. You were probably heading back to PALLET TOWN, I'm guessing? Maybe after receiving the PARCEL? Do be aware that this isn't a vanilla+ ROMhack - you're not gonna be able to turn your brain off and rush! Anyway, do have fun! Glad you got out safely!
Would you like me to help your POKéMON learn a MOVE?
Woah! Now there's slightly less trash!
The TOXIC SLUDGE in your BAG transformed into GRIMER!
OFFER: Level 30 AMPHAROS{PAUSE 60} REQUESTED: JIRACHI Level 9 or lower
The VULPIX seems very content.
Ah, there we go. Don't want anything bad to happen! But! While you're here, how about I give you somewhere else to go…
Electrode by QBCubed! Diglett done by Jogaklaa! Mankey by QBCubed!
Wowwie! I've never gotten THAT from Wonder Trade before!
Fill that SOOT SACK with ash and bring it back to me. I'll craft you a present, huff-puff!
Reset number five-thousand, two hundred and forty-eight... That stupid kid just grabbed one too, but that's fine... Please, God... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...Sigh. Reset number five-thousand, two hundred and forty-nine...
This guy gives you an “ODD EGG.” That's a special egg you get in GSC. The Pokemon inside will know DIZZY PUNCH as an egg move. Thus, I gave it to PHIONE.
Sold out! Guess you should come back later.
Behold! The SAFARI ZONE's incredible 600-Step Maze!
Here, take your EEVEE.
Any time there's a section where you're searching for a hidden item, the flowers aren't DAISY. I made a seperate non-Daisy tile just so she won't annoy you.
In gen 2, a machop you traded from RBY will always be holding the item BRICK PIECE. It doesn't do anything, and it sells for only ¥25 What the fuck.
{PLAYER} purchased the (allegedly) ethically-sourced MEAT!
Oh, hello there! I'm not in the DMCA! I'm actually just really lost, and I'm trying to find my way back home. Do you know how to get to CELADON MANSION from here? …Er, well, the second floor of the MANSION, at least?
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
HAUNTER by Plasto!
No? You're truly insisting we do this? Is there some pleasure you derive from stepping in and out of here?
If you wish to face him, prove yourself! Defeat us first!
After placing two SITRUS BERRIES here, there is nothing left.
Actually. I think the existence of Celia Commentary in this map means that technically it HAS been changed. Hum.
Okay, er... Here, kid! Take, uh, this!
Hey, you! Listen here! I got a great scam going. You want in? …Huh? You've heard this pitch before? Nonsense! Now come on. Are you in or not?
PIDGEOT by Lichen ARBOK by Boba Tea Thank you all!
There's a mysterious carving in the mountainside. It seems to resemble a POKéMON...
Oh… You took the cool floaty rock? {PAUSE 30}Yeah, understandable.
I'll often put CELIAS in areas you can't actually reach. I think it's funny to fuck with people
You just HAD to look at me, didn't you? ... Whatever. You know what happens next.
Hey! It's that very fancy STAKATAKA!
GYM LEADER ROOM Behind this door awaits your ultimate challenge. Be prepared to show all that you've learned!
It looks like the HALL OF FAME, but it's actually a very fancy toaster.
A curtain depicting a WATER insignita.
This room is full of interactables that reference the player's house. Writing the dialogue here was really fun!
Whelp. {PAUSE 30}I warned her.
Every time I watched someone play this hack, I'd promise that I would add the full Mario 64 level here. Well... You'll see.
You hear a voice from the skies…
Would you like to use ROCK CLIMB?
The sneaky path through the woods is sooooo cool. You can actually see the path by the trees that don't have shadows. It's very subtle.
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
He's sleeping again… Time to grab another!
Hiya! You seem to be struggling here. Would you like to have a hint?
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
In loving memory of grandpa. May we always recall his last words.
You're asking for a… level 9 JIRACHI? Yeah, okay bud.
The statues in here are to make sure you know that you need to bring water from the other side. After you've done the puzzle, they don't serve a purpose anymore so I removed them.
Oh no! Something terrible has happened! Someone shoved all of CELADON CITY into a RANDOMIZER!
MAZE ROOM Don't look at her!
Fwahaha, behold! I am a member of TEAM SKY! We're a nefarious organization dedicated to the expansion of AIR! None shall stand in our way! Soon we shall accomplish our goal to shrink both the LAND and the SEA!
You found LOSSELLE? And she's safe? I'm so relieved… Thank you so much! In retrospect, perhaps naming her LOSSELLE was a poor decision.
There's a whole history behind the WEEDLE Evolves into Bee joke. Originally I had this guy here, but weedle's pokedex entry had something else entirely. However, one early playthrough I heard someone repeating the line. And they loved when Combee happened! In other folks' playthroughs I'd try to make the line a bit again, but it never really caught on. So, I put it directly into the game a second time for the dex entry, and the rest is history!
BELLSPROUT by Jogaklaa!
Here you are! A beautiful glass FLUTE, huff-puff!
MAX: H-hey! What gives? What's up with that-
Oh no... I left my keys someplace, and I have no idea where. Oh! My HOUSE KEY! Could you give it back to me?
Go ahead! Laugh! I'm flat-out busted! I gambled for years and finally struck the jackpot! I was so excited to be rich! But just as I was walking over to the PRIZE EXCHANGE, the entire city went and shuffled itself! Here I am to drown my sorrow in some traditional AMERICAN apple juice. Come to me if you ever need COINS. I have more than enough to spare. Sob…
Ouch.
At long last, I have completed my life's work! I've painted photorealistic, animated water behind the trees!
Trust me - You'll thank me later!
No, you cannot change it to night. This should be obvious if you check your Pokedex and see that Houndour and Murkrow don't show up. Alas.
I made this cave exactly long enough that the song would reach the part where they yell “SECRET TUNNEL!”
DEBUG {STR_VAR_1} {STR_VAR_2}
You want another one? Sure!
WARDEN: The DMCA kidnapped my good friend, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER. He's somewhere in the SAFARI ZONE. If you can find him, he might know what they're looking for. Good luck. I'm sure you can save us!
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hmm, the sprinklers in here are really bothersome. I should've brought an umbrella! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
MAI: No, no, PRA. We're doing Math!
It's a very fancy GAMECUBE!
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
The rest of the pages are blank.
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
We're staging an executive takeover of SILPH CO! All copyrighted materials are getting deleted. Including stairs!
Red and Green! Check for colorblindness today!
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Wha-… Hey! What's the big idea? This spot here is mine! I've been here since the beginning. Ah forget it. I don't need to take this.
second option
Anyway, sorry for stopping you! That's just some friendly advice. Have fun, and good luck vs BROCK!
First draft of this line said he's waiting on a “Kid” to pass through. Yea that one's prolly a little too iffy for my tastes.
{PLAYER} found a fucking GUN!
Nope, still not OAK!
There was a scientist-type here earlier. He was saying something about FLASHING and how he was waiting on a trainer to pass through. I have no clue what he meant, so I arrested him just in case.
Hehehe… That's great to hear! But… You only have one POKéMON with you! You'll need another. Go grab one and come back!
Hehehe… That's great to hear! But… You only have one POKéMON with you! You'll need another. Go grab one and come back!
A familiar painting of three lit bombs. Wanna jump face-first into it?
Oh! This POKéMON has such lovely hair… But, do I have it in me to cut it? This is more than I've ever done… Yes. Yes! I can do it! I believe in myself! Now! Let's give you a little trim…
A projector screen is set up against the wall of the cave.
There was a bug here in beta where the screen wouldn't fully fade in. It's a problem with FRLG's engine. I've fixed it now, but before that I just had Dad talk about how it's getting dark out. People seemed to like it :)
I really like the respawn animation here.
{PLAYER} opened the present.
That pattern in the tiles there... Something about it is off-putting to me. Almost as though at its very core, it embodies copying and repeating.
That's not OAK, silly!
TRAINER! I am GRETA of the BATTLE TOWER! My POKéMON has weathered the harshest of conditions. Do you think you stand a chance?
Bah! Such cowardice! Fine, then. Be on your way.
Why hello there, young adventurer! How're you doing this fine day? I'm but a humble salesman of the freshest meats in KANTO. Ethically sourced, of course! Right now, my exotic tastes go for a mere ¥500! How's about it, eh?
You pick up an HP UP here in this berry patch. The idea is that this item gets shuffled with the rest of the randomizer. Then later in town, you find a BERRY in a regular item spot.
Would you like to DRILL through it?
{PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I didn't know you were into traditional ceremonial dance. What fine taste you've developed! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
BED ROOM A room perfectly suited for a nice, long nap
Digging in the trash can, you find several packets of SMELLING SALTS.
An empty doorframe sits on the wall. Would you like to use your SPARE DOOR?
In Pokemon BW, there's an NPC on a bridge who suddenly phases out of existence. In Avatar the Last Airbender, an iconic line is “Pants are an illusion, and so is death!”
Nope! There's nothing back here. It's just for the Chuckster. I probably could add something, but idk what.
Hey! Don't look at me!
I clicked on one of those darned pop-up windows. Rats, I hope I didn't install a virus on my POKéMON again…
{PLAYER} found a TM11! It contains WATER GUN.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Coming back to visit me after your victory? That's so sweet of you! But never mind that. How about you take a rest?
This patch of snow is empty now, but the memories you made live on.
Fuck you mindy.
Y{PAUSE 5}o{PAUSE 5}u{PAUSE 5}'{PAUSE 5}r{PAUSE 5}e{PAUSE 5} n{PAUSE 5}o{PAUSE 5}t{PAUSE 5} t{PAUSE 5}h{PAUSE 5}e {PAUSE 5}o{PAUSE 5}n{PAUSE 5}e{PAUSE 5}…
Full disclosure: I don't actually know what this guy will do. In the first draft of the game he gave you moon stones, and you'd evolve Nidoking here to get Surf. Things have changed quite a bit since then, progression-wise. But I still think it's funny to keep some dude trapped by a rock. So for now, he's staying.
It's not OAK.
He's not moving…
Mysteriously, you feel your TM CASE re-materialize in your bag. Neat!
The door is locked…
FROSLASS: Fraaah!
Looks like he went back to sleep. Maybe you can grab one more…
Oh, wow! How lovely! My brother did such a wonderful job with this HAIRCUT. I couldn't improve on it. But thank you for showing me this! Wow…
POKéMON Lecture Playing with the Wireless Adapter Go to the CABLE CLUB in any POKéMON CENTER for Wireless play! NOTICE! Trading in CELADON is currently non-functional, as no one in the CITY can find the darn CABLE CLUB.
Y'know there isn't exactly a script that says “Walk to the beat.” I had to calculate how many frames each beat of the song was and how long each walk cycle is. Then I had to painstakingly time it exactly along with the music. It was a very tedious process.
The COLOSSEUM Bonus Disc is loaded up! {PLAYER} plugged the GBA into the GAMECUBE! ... Too bad! Your PARTY is full! Please try again later!
Ding Dong!{PAUSE 60} The toaster is finished!
This guy's a reference to AJ from the anime. He chucked his SANDSHREW in the river until it wasn't weak to WATER. Kinda fucked up, ngl. However, many players will have a fainted Charmander by now. Thus, DAD is here to make sure you can get annoyed by Water Absorb.
Getting the LIGHTHOUSE sign to only be visible once the camera panned up was fun. Especially cuz you can see the top of the lighthouse from above.
CELIA: Oh, by the way.
I wanted this to be a proper stealth section with all the bells and whistles, but it didn't work. Oh well, this is still cute enough.
Trust me, it's best if you don't go down there.
Oh man, this was so fun.
The IRON CURTAIN is hanging on the wall.
Rats!
It appears to be a hobbyist nuclear reactor.
Oh no! Grandpa's dead!
Thank you for playing the DEMO of POKéMON COLOSSEUM!
Wowwie! Was that a GHOST/GROUND TYPE? I've never seen one of those before!
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: Aha! We've done it! We've finally shown those corporate jerks who's boss!
An off-center picture of three lit bombs. Wanna do it again?
Okay I know I said I wouldn't write any more dialogue, but geez. You REALLY like EEVEE, huh? Well. I guess you can have another.
Oh, wow! Look at you! I've heard there's POKéMON out there like you, but with utterly beautiful, luscious hair. Not you, though. You, uh, don't need a haircut.
I'm sorry, but it appears you have not brought your SANDWICH CASE. I cannot do business with you. Turning customers away for dumb reasons is how I choose to express my traditional AMERICAN values! Come back once you have one!
In the beta, players kept going down the underground path before looking here to see all the rain and such. Thus, I added a silly roadblock in Lavender and a dumb puzzle to boot!
PANPOUR: Pa-padah!
SWI: I'm sure the music insertion couldn't possibly fail this time… … … … … … … … … … … … right?
SPENSER: Hrrm… I had the same luck in my low-level challenge run.
What will the Brick Pieces be used for? Stay tuned!
… … … … … …
Oh… Oh dear. That IS why you're here, isn't it?
Putting a bench at the end is very, very, funny.
Yes! I've always wanted a SAIL FOSSIL! Hahaha! Get your own!
DUSCLOPS: Cloooops!
Each day the tide comes in, and each night the tide goes out. As the sands of the beach pull away, so do the sands of time. Soon, we shall all return to dust. … … … … … … … … I can't swim.
Would you like to use your DRILL DOZER?
Believe it or not, where I'm standing is smack dab on the CENTER of town.
Oh no! The PSYDUCK PAIL is totally empty! Looks like it's got a hole in the bottom…
SUSAN: It's no use trying to save her now. CUBONE's mom belongs to us!
FURRET: Bwaah!
Yup. Massive blackout.
I'm sure they won't mind.
Jagged rocks line the wall.
ROUTE 12 WAKE-UP SHOP For all your Waking Up needs!
This blasted elevator! I was hoping I'd be able to get back to the city through it, but it's not working!
Darn, these ones are fancy toasters too...
Oh! Oh! Hello! Welcome to my BIKE shop! You're my first customer since setting up shop down here! I have a special promotion going on right now. Every 1 customers gets a prize! All you need to do is answer one question correctly. Ready? True or False: BIKES come in more than one color?
Have you activated the secret music in this room?
In retrospect, this shiny was probably a little too easy. Oh well.
Finders keepers…
A slice of CHEESE popped out!
As if I'd give you a move deleter in a game where vital field moves are restricted to certain Pokemon. I'm not letting you get softlocked THAT easily!
FURRET: Bwaah!
The nurses in this gym don't do the full “fade out screen play jingle fade back in messagebox” thing. If you had to sit through that each time you walked into this room, you'd go insane.
Ah, to bask in the warm glow of the purified zone! {PLAYER} enjoys the brief spot of respite.
I had to do a lot of script fuckery to make this cabinet appear right while sending the pokeball. When you walk behind it, normally it's layered in front of you. Switching it temporarily took work
If you try putting the curtain on this door, you won't be able to walk through because it won't be aligned with the tile grid. A silly consequence of how we made the tiles!
That's what I thought. Then return to the challenge!
Oh, no… I do beg your pardon. I only recently taught that attack to my DUSCLOPS. He's been eager to try it, see. I hope your POKéMON don't mind being a touch sluggish for a while.
Fun fact there isn't actually an item here in vanilla. I just made you think there is
Did you know in GSC, Bugsy is inexplicably coded to be female?
There's nothing here… {PAUSE 20}yet.
Oh man, TWO ISLAND is great. Talk about a cult classic! When's THREE ISLAND coming out?
MAI: No, no, PRA. We're doing Math!
Every time I put a signpost in a field like this, I am reminded of how much I hate using Porymap. HMA is sooooooooo much better for map design!!
TM34 contains, uh… BIDE. Er, it is a move that… definitely exists.
If that's what you're up to, then be my guest! You won't be hearing any more from me!
Isn't that right?
…Huh? No, I am BRANDON. BRENDAN is the kid next door. People get us mixed up all the time.
Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Hey hey! Welcome to the MERCH table! Wanna buy a life-sized CLEFAIRY doll? They're perfect for snuggling! We've got a discount right now. Only ¥3,000,000 each!
no teeth
MEWTWO by Crow TENTACRUEL by Lichen AERODACTYL by Vissery
you have b button you win
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I was just enjoying a nice balloon ride over the bay. The air up here is lovely! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
I hope to see you soon!
There's an e-mail message here. … Greetings, friend! It is indeed my pleasure to write to you this letter. My name is Mutassim Gaddafi, and I am a prince of Nigeria. Recently, my father has passed away and left me with a large sum. MR. ROWAN, please send us a small fee…
Thank you for kicking those DMCA guys out of the SAFARI ZONE. Now we can get back to business as usual!
Hello, there! It's so very nice to meet you. My name is ROWAN. But everyone calls me the POKéMON PROFESSOR! ...Wait, what's that? There are others with that title as well? Hrrrm.
There we are! Absolutely beautiful! Yes, now that we've experienced the lovely white flash, we can be on our way.
Down this hole is a CANNON. We use it to launch our friends! If you need to leave, just jump in!
Hey!
This patch of grass has been intricately painted to resemble a fence.
Oh! Um, hello! We're the HAIRCUT Brothers! Sorry, we haven't had any visitors in quite a while. I'm not really sure why…
The sandcastle appears well-fed.
The girl inside this house won't stop illegally copying materials!
A whole bunch of guys dressed as POKéMON ran into that cave! I didn't mind, though. None of them looked at me.
RATTATA by The Scrub FEAROW by SimpleMary! PIDGEY by QBCubed!
{PLAYER} obtained the grateful KANGASKHAN!
Ooooh… Pretty colors!
The door is locked.
WARDEN: The DMCA kidnapped my good friend, the FISHING GURU'S BROTHER. He's somewhere in the SAFARI ZONE. If you can find him, he might know what they're looking for. Good luck. I'm sure you can save us!
I recently moved to this town. When I got here, the DMCA forced me to take down my fanfic…
… …What?
Why do you need a second fridge?
This guy uses Digrat from TPP! The poor thing was taught Dig and kept digging Red out of dungeons.
POLIWAG by Jogaklaa NIDORINO by SharkGuy GOLDUCK by Jogaklaa
Oh. It's… {PAUSE 30}poopfart the CATERPIE. {PAUSE 30}Again. Ah, well. I'll try again tomorrow!
“Oh god getting healed is actually a problem!” was a genius bit.
What, you're not in? Gimme a break! Fine. Come back if you change your mind.
Did you figure out how to properly activate the MAX REPEL? It's available in this demo!
Hello dearie, have you already drinken all of your TOXIC SLUDGE? Oh, but you're still breathing. That's no good. Here, have some more.
Inside this teleporter is supposed to be a Clefairy inside Bill's body Y'know, the one he swapped with. Alas, that seems to go over the average person's head.
Thanks for doing business!
NIDOTRAN♀: Dyooo!
{PLAYER} obtained the POWER BOUNCE BADGE!
DAD! Hey, {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Don't you know I'm the LEADER of FUSHCIA GYM? My INVISIBLE WALLS are strong! Well, never mind that. How about we battle?{PLAY_BGM}{MUS_ENCOUNTER_GYM_LEADER}
{STR_VAR_1} was paralyzed!
Thank you for your support over the years! Unfortunately, we want to release this game in Europe, so we closed.
Yeah, I didn't think so.
Oh… This guy looks a little… broken. Oh well! Your problem now! See ya!
Too bad! There's no TM CASE…
Fact: 90% of gambling addicts quit right before they hit big. I've been at this for 80 years and I'm not giving up yet!
Phew, good thing the entire top half of the LIGHTHOUSE is intact! The week they remodeled downstairs, there were at least 12 shipwrecks. The debris really ruined the view!
Hey, there! Welcome to BOB-OMB BATTLEFIELD! …What's that? You think you've stumbled into the wrong game? Uh huh. Well, I hope you enjoy your stay!
Later!
return teeth
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
Oh no! She's been POISONED!
This whole area was added to be a red herring for SURGE. I knew the player would obviously jump to BLACKGLASSES as the answer, so I needed to address it somehow. Thus, I made a stupid scene where I dangle them in front of you but make CLEAR that you can't get them.
Who manages to drop their teeth anyway?
Um, hi! Welcome to NUGGETBRIDGE! Er, I noticed that you only have one POKéMON with you right now. We actually have a whole thing going on, and you kinda need two. Could you go grab another? Thanks for understanding!
DAISY: Hi, {PLAYER}! How are you?
{PLAYER} watered the tree…
The hole is too small for you to walk through.
It's the rest of your POKéMON! Nice!
There's a cannon down the hole. Would you like to launch yourself?
OFFER: Level 80 CATERPIE{PAUSE 30} REQUESTED: BUTTERFREE {PAUSE 30}(Any Level) Trainer's Note:{PAUSE 30} HOw do you beat brock??
The KANGASKHAN's heart has a SHADOW AURA!
{PLAYER} received the special event JIRACHI!
Lovely! I hope you have a wonderful, non- infringing visit!
Despite your continued insistance, this remains not OAK. Oh well.
I wonder what that poor sucker is thinking now…
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Did you get the RUNNING SHOES I sent to you? You'd better be wearing them! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
It seems the B BUTTON isn't working. The POWER couldn't be turned on!
Ohohoho! Out-side!
Setting var
Look at this beautiful piece of AMBER we found! It's one of our finest specimens. ...What? No, of course you can't have it! Why would you think you could?
Looks like it's still going.
Hello, dearie. How can I help you?
That's not OAK's PC, silly!
{STR_VAR_1} was paralyzed!
Okay, no worries. Good luck! I believe in you!
It's OAK! … …Wait, maybe not.
Behold, the only bit of overt political messaging in the hack. Why people have a problem with the gay shit but not him is beyond me.
Lovely! Thanks so much! I hope you have a great time!
3F: TV GAME SHOP
I've put your POKéMON up on the TRADE network. I'll let you know if we get a hit!
Huh? A bird cult ceremony? Nah, man. Eddie's my uncle. He lets me through for free!
Um. That didn't quite work as planned.
Hello! Welcome to the GLOBAL TRADE SYSTEM! The LIGHTHOUSE wasn't doing well for tourism, so we traded it away. I hope you enjoy our services!
Punch the memorial?
placeholder
WARDEN: Aha! That's much better. Thank you so much! Sorry about earlier. I've been under a lot of stress. The DMCA have instituted a takeover of my precious SAFARI ZONE. I thought you were with them. We need to stop them somehow, but I'm too old to do it alone. …What's that? You're going to fight them? Ha! Great news! Here, take my GUN. I'm sure you'll need it.
{PLAYER} turned on the power!
Hey! Even after our battle, you're still looking at me! Cut it out!
SEA COTTAGE BILL lived here!
Oh… That's okay, I understand.
When you went to ROUTE 22 earlier, did you catch all 3 POKéMON there? I think there might be one that you're missing!
{PLAYER} received a SLOWPOKE!
ROUTE 7 NEW WILD POKéMON: 1
We are the most skilled of our LEADER's apprentices. Our talent is unmatched!
Would you like to DRILL through it?
Yup, there's the fourth switch. That means there's only one left!
{PLAYER} opened the present.
... C'mon, man.
oops.
All right, totally understood. Have a nice day!
FRIEND ROOM Well, this friend is actually a bit toxic.
Thank you to everyone who contributed! Indulge yourself in the joy of creation! Never forget your childlike glee! All art, no matter your skill, still has value! -CELIA the creator
A thin piece of paper covers a {PLAYER}-shaped hole in the glass. Would you like to jump?
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
... ... Am I next...?
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hey, there sure are a lot of policemen out here. Better not break the law! Well, never mind that. How about you take arrest?
Now listen, sweetie! Stay away from the fence. You don't wanna get hurt!
ZUBAT by Raw Meat Arrow MEOWTH by KaizanStarlight ONIX by Jogaklaa
I had so much trouble getting folks to believe me about candies. The only reason I put them in is to save you time!!! Not everything I do is evil!!
Fun fact! In FRLG, if you use a cheat to check the TV from the left or right, it'll say “Oops! Wrong side!” That's where the idea for this joke came from! PS: Have you found your way to the back side yet?
{PLAYER} decided against testing fate.
That's not OAK, silly!
Wow! That's an awesome costume! Where'd you get it?
“Put your Pokemon in the PC with a very specific wallpaper” is one hell of an evolution method.
I have no clue if anyone finds the HBOX jumpscares funny or not.
MT. MOON Shortcut {RIGHT_ARROW}
{PLAYER} quickly made a new SANDIWCH, such that you don't have to do it again!
Yup, ZAPDOS really is that easy to find. Good job remembering to come back to check!
The door is locked.
TRAINER TIPS! Don't make a wrong turn!
ERIK: Hello, there! {PAUSE 20}…Oh? What's that? SARA's waiting for me? Oh no… I totally forgot. Today was our anniversary… I'm {PAUSE 30}an awful partner. She deserves better than me… Could you take me to where she is? I need to make it up to her.
This puzzle wound up being much harder than I wanted. It's hard to communicate what you need to do if you aren't used to solving escape rooms. BTW! This double battle behavior is only in Emerald! We had to port it over, and it was fucking HARD.
ATTENTION! In light of last month's unfortunate decapitation incident, this GYM is no longer in service. Thank you for your patronage.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? I was heading home, but TENTACOOL has other plans, it seems. I'm stuck here in place! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
KANGASKHAN booted up the TM! It contained BRICK BREAK!
Haha, thanks! I'll see what I can swipe with this.
FUSHCIA CITY POKéMART TEMPORARILY CLOSED Pending investigation of a link to the mass POISONING scandal. Authorities cite spike in sales of ANTIDOTES as evidence. Stay tuned for updates.
There is a small hole in the wall. Would you like to DRILL through it?
… … …
{PLAYER} used the DEVON SCOPE!
Wahaha! Thanks, kid! Hope it was worth it!
There's a suspiciously POKéMON CENTER-shaped imprint in the ground.
It's not OAK.
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? Hey, do you know where my good friend BILL went? Maybe we should check on him again… Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
The DELIBIRD stayed awake thanks to its INSOMNIA!
I'd always planned this ledge to be the shortcut back to CELADON. The fact that it functions as a red herring while exploring the city was just a fun coincidence!
Later!
{PLAYER} received 29 TAUROS!
{PLAYER} recieved a PARAS from the kindly BRELOOM!
Oh, man! Thank you so much!
The Loss route will never not be funny.
CELIA: Welcome! I'd just like to draw your attention to this machine, which I have literally never seen anybody use in my life.
{PLAYER} fed the ominous CASTLE a SANDWICH!
we are ninjas
DAZZLE: Thank you for trading with me, guy!
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
Jagged rocks line the wall.
The present is empty.
You decide to stop reading.
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
The quest to get into this house is actually so convenient for me. Many of the Celia Secrets are tied to specific locations, but I didn't want people to get spoiled if they found one early. But this one requires you to get to Celadon to finish, so it acts as a gatekeeper for the others. That way, you'll never learn about an area you haven't been to yet!
DAD: Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Double battler 1
{PLAYER} found one, singular BLACKGLASSES!
It's Civil Asset Forfeiture, baby! Nothing illegal about that! Whazzat? You got a problem with it? Ha! What're you gonna do about it? Call the cops?
FISHING GURU'S BROTHER: Oh! By the way, {PLAYER}. While I was captured, they hid this near my cell. I've been holding onto it. Here, take it. You've easily earned it back.
Would you like to insert the VALOR SEAL?
Hey, hey! Have you thought about my offer? All I need is your date of birth, social security, and credit card info! How about it?
POKéMON TOWER Top Floor {RIGHT_ARROW} Exit {LEFT_ARROW}
Uh, thanks. ... Goodbye.
The curtain does not open further. It seems this is a dead end.
GRAND DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? See that portal? I actually came out of there! That's why I'm your GRAND DAD! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
I don't wanna make a “Celia Laying Down” sprite.
…
I told him this was a bad idea. Oh well!
FURRET: Bwaah!
Perhaps if you had a tool, you'd be able to add one.
Huh? Yeah, I'm the CLEANING LADY. This room's getting remodeled. I moved the STATUES to storage.
Rats! The door's been stapled shut!
Oh, you'd like it to have another haircut? B-but it already has such a lovely, um, t-trim! I couldn't possibly. Y-yeah…
Hey, looks like this guy came with a little something extra. Check it out!
{PLAYER} decided against a likely concussion.
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Wha-? Hey! {FONT_SMALL}What gives?
Death is an illusion. And so are pants.
I've heard there's a DRAGON-TYPE POKéMON with luscious hair. I'd really love to meet it someday…
The number of fucking streamers who read this guy's initial “I'm looking for mushrooms, but…” and then DON'T FUCKING READ THE SECOND HALF OF HIS DIALOGUE WHERE HE ACTUALLY ELABORATES ON IT and then proceed to get mad and call him stupid? Holy shit it drives me crazy.
Would you like to pound it using GROUND POUND?
The only reason this area has grass and water is because in vanilla, there's no Drought sun weather. Thus, if I wanted it to be sunny I had to use the “Cloud reflecting in pond water” weather effect. Now that we're in decomp, I can add the intense sunlight myself! However, it does make it slightly strange that there's water now. Oh well.
{PLAYER} used the TOXIC SLUDGE!
The BALLOON POKéMON will sometimes come to visit us. I wonder if he'll be there today!
Hey, best of luck with that. I'm sure you'll be able to beat MOTHER BRAIN!
It's opened to a search engine…
{PLAYER} pushed the bench!
Hey, congratulations! You found the SECRET HOUSE! …Again. Hey! You have your TM CASE now! That means you're eligible for our prize. Here!
Hello, traveller. See that TOWER across the bay?
I tried so hard to make an interesting puzzle out of this SNORLAX. Alas, no matter what I tried I couldn't think of anything fun. Thus, he blows up in your face.
We are a community! One full of passion and love!
Thank you for your business!
Hmm, this GAMECUBE seems different. Let's come back to it later.
Dad here actually has new dialogue if you talk to him after BROCK!
The POKéMON looks thoroughly forlorn.
ROUTE 22 NEW WILD POKéMON: 3
In older versions, the tiles above and below this guy were solid walls that weren't walkable. It was a reference to how talking to him from those tiles in RBY would crash the game doing the Mew glitch. Sadly, it was a joke that no one got and it kept being reported as a bug. So I decided to just remove it.
Thanks! Now lemme put this up for trade…
W-wait! Hold on! What are you doing!?
KANGASKHAN: Gah! Gah!
For more information about this POKéMON, visit Lickipedia.org!
All right! My buddy's going to trade me his GRAVELER for my MACHOKE!
Even after learning not to read bookshelves, I've found that folks still try to check this one. Thus, I decided to be polite and save them some time.
They say that variety is the spice of life, but I disagree. I pride myself in offering exactly one thing with no other choices!
Oh! Um, hello? Welcome to the GLOBAL TRADE SYSTEM. We're having a big power outage. Most of our machines are down. The guard outside was supposed to stop anyone from coming in here… He'd better not be slacking off.
Have you come to pray at the altar of the LIGHTNING ARCHBIRD? They say that one who encounters all three is holy and blessed. For the GLORY of the SKIES! I pray calm for you, o traveler.
{PLAYER} fucking died!
The TOWER has been sealed away all my life. No one knows what lies inside. Perhaps one day, a brave soul will venture within.
I caught some cool POKéMON in the SAFARI ZONE! Here, I have a few extra. Why don't you take some?
He seems very focused. You shouldn't bother him.
Wait!!
There. I hope you're happy with yourself.
{PLAYER} decided not to risk internal hemmorage.
There's a puddle of guard behind the counter.
The door appears happy.
Looks like this ROUTE is facing a strange weather anomaly. I wonder what's causing it.
… This disturbs me.
Wha-? Hey! Don't take my new DOLL!
That's my GS BALL! No, you can't have it. It's very important to the plot. I need to keep it safe!
Ah, the DANCE THEATER is finally open! I can't wait to SHAKE IT! The DIET DANCE beckons!
Ah, MT. MOON. By far the single hardest part of this hack to get right for me. And also, the sole reason why I will never try putting a dungeon in this hack again! Making the tentacools sufficiently annoying but not infuriating was one hell of a balancing act. Plus, the fight with the boss at the end was so hard to design! I'm pretty happy with how it landed in the end, but it took a lot of work to get here.
The wallpaper is relatively new. Would you like to look under it?
Later!
MR. FUJI: This POKéMON doesn't have any MOVES it can learn.
The door is locked.
D'ya ever find yourself completely stuck with no clue what to do? I do sometimes. Whenever I'm completely stumped, I check OAK's PC. There's no shame in getting help.
TRAINER TIPS! Wanna know what's funnier than ROUTE 24?
SUSAN: What? No! How is this possible?
The door is locked.
Storage
Fwahahaha! Welcome, child, to FUSHCIA GYM! You wish to challenge me and claim my BADGE as your own? What folly! If that's what you desire, you must solve the maze ahead. However! There is a twist! To enter my GYM, you are only permitted to bring 3 POKéMON. Beyond that, only your wits remain. Knowing this, do you still wish to challenge me?
I am deeply sorry that this hack doesn't have a Yes/No option to join the DMCA right here. I know that's the one feature that people look for in these things. Maybe I'll add a Copyright Law ending to the game eventually...
{UP_ARROW} {LEFT_ARROW} {RIGHT_ARROW} {LEFT_ARROW} {UP_ARROW} {RIGHT_ARROW} {LEFT_ARROW} {DOWN_ARROW} {LEFT_ARROW} {UP_ARROW} {RIGHT_ARROW} {RIGHT_ARROW}
TRAINER TIPS! Talk to her again!
The short kid left this here.
People struggled with the gold teeth quest, so I put the sign and the NPC beside each other. I hoped that the proximity would clue people in that they're related.
ALAKAZAM by Boba Tea DODUO by Boba Tea Venonat by Fayren! Machoke by Sky Ankou
Yeah, it's slightly misaligned. My bad! -Celia
DUSCLOPS used WILL-O-WISP!
{PLAYER} took the SITRUS BERRY out of the BERRY POUCH.
Hmm, so going left at the GAME FREAK office leads to the DEPT. STORE, and going up the stairs leads… …Okay yeah, I have no idea where I am.
DUSCLOPS used WILL-O-WISP!
Something about this tree in particular feels… off. Would you like to water it?
TRAINER TIPS Don't forget to head EAST from VIRIDIAN CITY and explore ROUTE 22!
SILPH has been putting out so many fake patents! With all the revenue from the copyright claims, we're gonna be so rich!
Hey! The electric locks were reset!
TRAINER TIPS! Some POKéMON have had their types altered in this hack. KOFFING, for instance, is DARK/ POISON-TYPE.
How many simply-connected, closed 3- manifolds exist up to homeomorphism? {LEFT_ARROW}0 {UP_ARROW}1 {RIGHT_ARROW}2
You can't have that one! It's my favorite!
Hey!
It's POKéMON COLOSSEUM! ... ...Wait, no! It's the POKéMON COLOSSEUM bonus disc! Quick! Connect your GBA!
Ahoy, there! Uh, how's it going? Say, is there any chance you could call for some help? I've been trapped here for weeks!
This newspaper text was originally in the school bookshelf. However, I didn't feel right with a bookshelf not having Chapter 3, so I moved it over here!
Ah, the infamous GEODUDE hint. Arguably, it's very mean of me to include a hint towards something you can't actually do. However, I prefer to think of it as foreshadowing!
In the decomp update, I improved the LightYears cutscene slightly. I now have the player continue to walk while the screen fades. Before, they'd just abruptly stop. Debugging that stupid code took me more than three hours. I hate this.
Forget this-! I can't stand it anymore!
Don't worry about this yet. We'll get there when we get there.
Oooh, wow! Look at this neat SANDCASTLE! Oh? No, I didn't make it. Someone else must have.
DARACH: Ah, I see you're challenging my lady? Aha! Well if you're capable, then I shall add myself to the fray. When my lady and I fight together, nothing can ever defeat us!
Would you like to insert the INSTINCT SEAL?
I'm the owner of the SEASIDE HOUSE. You can call me Mx. SEA! We got a special drink in from CELADON GYM. They say it's a real doozy! Here, take this!
You didn't get FARFETCH'D the regular way yet. Don't worry - this isn't the normal method. I won't force you to, but I think you should try to figure out how you're supposed to. Anyway, good bye and good luck!
However, the engineers who built it all failed math.
He seems sad to have missed the action.
KANGASKHAN: Gaaah!
Hmm… Heya, stranger! I have a question. I was about to head home after shopping, but I can't seem to leave. There's some weird arena upstairs for some reason, and I can't go down. I think I'm stuck here. Do you have any idea what's going on?
Jokes that'll get me banned from POKECOMMUNITY:
DAD: {PLAYER}! What are you doing out here? That UNDERGROUND PATH was a real doozy! I could've been looking right at someone and I'd never know! Well, never mind that. How about you take a rest?
Oh, OAK! Your branches are so... girthy.
Aww… You're no fun.
FURRET is fucking!
There was a scientist-type here earlier. He said something about being EVER STONED and how he was waiting for a TRAINER to come by. I have no clue what he meant, so I arrested him just in case.
That trainer there is a LASS in vanilla. I needed to swap her out for a PICKNICKER so it wouldn't mess with my Lass running gag.
For those who don't know, 10U is a competitive Pokemon format. 10U is the lowest tier of RBY, where only 6 Pokemon are left to be legal. Every single team is the same, and it's extremely unfun. Check out Big Yellow's video on it! I simply continued the trend.
Waa! The GHOSTS in here are so scary! It's okay, though. My CLEFAIRY will keep me safe.
Slowpoke is a strong contender for my favorite learnset in the hack.
The floor here is a different color than usual! Something with the palettes broke, so rather than fixed it I just swapped it out for a new one.
KANGASKHAN: Gah! Kan-Gah!!
CONTEST HALL
My buddy here lost his GUN. Someone from FUSHCIA picked it up. I don't care, though. It's not my problem. We have bigger things to worry about than a rando with a deadly weapon.
{PLAYER} refused to water the tree. The tree appears grateful.
LUCY: Hmph. Running out of steam yet? I am LUCY of the BATTLE PIKE. Welcome to the TRICK ROOM! Think you can get past?
There was an Odd Candy on the other side of this pond in the last demo. Due to some structure changes with how the end of the hack is planned to go, I decided to move it. Now you can actually get it in the demo!
Oh, hey! Is that a B BUTTON? I think that's what our reactor needs to get started again! Let's give it a shot!
Do you know whose bones are on display here? The answer is… Your bones. My bones. Bone's bones. Bone bone bone.
You can talk to this guy across the counter. In vanilla, he has a very sad story. You should look it up!
I am 30 years old.
…Oh? What's this? KANGASKHAN would like to join you on your adventure!
There's a sign on the door…
TRAINER TIPS! After you've beaten a TRAINER, don't forget to talk to them again. Oftentimes, they'll have something useful or interesting to say!
{PLAYER} decided to be a fucking pussy.
{PLAYER} received the GUN from the SAFARI ZONE WARDEN!
Your TAUROS looks excited. Would you like to use HYPER BEAM?
I shall await you at your final goal. Show me all that you've learned! But first, you must take a rest. I'll be gone when you arise.
Bah! This POKéMON won't do! I need a true test of my ability. Bring me a POKéMON whose hair is truly tangled beyond repair!
The BRICKS have been BREAKED.
The sandcastle is exceedingly well-crafted. There's an opening on the front. Look inside?
{PLAYER} picked up a SHELLDER!
Wha-!? But my POKéMON was invincible! How did you-?
No matter which door you choose, your first opponent is Brandon and your second is Spenser. The illusion of free choice!
{PLAYER} received the GUN from the SAFARI ZONE WARDEN!
{PLAYER} received their own {STR_VAR_1} from the incompetent scammer!
Hi, there! Are you looking for CUT? Don't worry, you don't need to go back through the UNDERGROUND PATH. Everything you need is on this side! Talk to everyone and think carefully! Good luck!
I hope our paths cross again.
Welcome, young traveler. I see you have an eye for rarities. I offer many wares that those in power may find… objectionable.
Are you REALLY sure?
My name is JANINE! My FATHER is the LEADER of this GYM! Are you tired yet? FUSHCIA GYM is just beginning!
A leak in the wall. It's where the TENTACOOL came from!
FRIEND ROOM A room to connect with a kind acquaintance
In this hack, I removed the ability to organize your pokedex by type and by letter. This is explicitly me taking agency away from the player. However, within the context of this hack, it's obvious why. Players who use those features by default don't expect there to be anything new with the dex order, so they default to what they know. It's my job as a game designer to guide players to the experience I want them to have. Anyway, modern gen exp share.
Are you sure?
{PLAYER} recieved the trans-supporting MANKEY!
VULPIX: Prrrah!
These two NPCS at this table are supposed to compliment each other: One sets up a joke, the other ends. For that to work, players would need to read the DRAGON guy first, and then read the FAIRY girl. The whole table used to be placed on the left side of the GYM. However, players were consistently reading the two in the wrong order! Even after I would swap them around! So, I decided to simply move them all to the right side. Now, it seems like players are talking to the DRAGON guy first.
Have you heard of a POKéMANIAC named BILL? He's a legend around here. They say he even turned himself into a POKéMON! But… No one's heard from him in a while. I hope he's okay.
Why'd I leave a big empty space with nothing in it? Good question!
And you, there. {PLAYER}, was it? Thank you, {PLAYER}. You've done a great deed. But I must ask: How were you able to save her?
Aww… You're no fun.
CUBONE: Cu-Curraa!
{PLAYER} received their own {STR_VAR_1} from the incompetent scammer!
I'm a CHUCKSTER!
Originally, you actually DID need to pay the full ¥10,000. The price was to make sure the player wouldn't waste their money here and be unable to buy Gyara. This solution works much better.
Something about this tree in particular feels... off.
Yes!
haha
Your PSYDUCK PAIL is out of water…
It appears the door is misaligned with the tile grid. You cannot go through. Would you like to remove the IRON CURTAIN?
Wait… What are you doing? No! Stop! Please!
{STR_VAR_1} was burned!
This area's under DMCA control! No copyrighted content allowed. Get 'em!
DUSCLOPS used THUNDER WAVE!
Oh? Really? Not even the cute callback to an old joke is going to make you stop?
Thank you!
I can't be the only one who thought “Booted Up” meant kicked, right?
Hmm… It doesn't smell like you!
The pedestal is engraved with the number two.
Aww, too bad!
Are you just mashing A right now?
This GYM is violating the copyright of the GYM next door!
There's an exact copy of this map 50 tiles up and left of here. We're in the bottom corner of a giant void. I use the copy to line up parity with the downstairs. You'll see why we're in the corner of a void soon.
There's an invisible object in the way.
This kid actually has two different lines of dialogue! For before and after having a Bike. However, most people were only talking to him once, missing it. So, I merged the first dialogue onto the second when you talk to him afterwards. That way, at least some players will see the updated dialogue.
Woah, there! Not cool! I didn't ask for that!
Hey! You're that kid from MT. MOON. You wanted my favorite FOSSIL! But! Look at this one. It's my other favorite!
FURRET is surfing!
That's not BILL, silly!
There! That should do you for now. With all those levels, I'm sure you'll be able to get through! Anyway, good luck! Remember to fill in your POKéDEX!
Fun fact! Combee being the answer to this puzzle? Total coincidence. I had the Combee idea way after putting this in, and it was a total fluke that it learns Sweet Scent normally. Honestly I just wanted to give the player a useless Pokemon for a joke.
Hey! Check it out! My VULPIX card has a typo! I bet it'll be worth hundreds some day!
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
Oh, hey! That's a valid password! It's not quite as good as NARPAS SWORD, but hey! It'll do in a pinch. Here's what you've unlocked. Enjoy!
{FONT_SMALL}OAK?: Aight, kid. Make some good use outta that! Anyway, I'm leavin. I got bigger fish to fry! Peace out!
Come back here if you'd like to teach your POKéMON a move.
Wha-? Hey! Don't take my CLEFAIRY!
All right, that should be more than enough CANDY. You're on your own from here. Good luck!
Making a ROMhack!? I can't believe such illegal activities were going on, and right under our noses! The BOSS will be sure to shut this studio down! …Uh, right as soon as I figure out how to get to him.
The soil is intensely dry and arid. It hasn't been moistened in ages. Attempting to plant a berry in such barren land would be a waste.
A large statue of a PENCIL blocks the way.
SECRET HOUSE Now offering prizes! - SAFARI ZONE, LLC.
They say that variety is the spice of life, but I disagree. I pride myself in offering exactly one thing with no other choices!
Rats! There's no DRATINI here! The DMCA has been hunting for one. There's rumors of copyright trouble! I guess our crew in the SAFARI ZONE will be on their own...
Er… Ahem. Let me repeat myself: Now that we have experienced the lovely{PAUSE 20} white{PAUSE 20} flash,{PAUSE 40} we can be on our way.
{PLAYER} used the DRILL DOZER!
What a lovely show! Ah, it brings back memories. Me and my friends were BLUE, RED, YELLOW, and GREEN too! I hear my GREEN-HAIRED friend is around here somewhere. I hope I run into him again!
Hey! Stop it!
When you jump out the window, the map needs to be aligned with the spot you fall. Because of that, this tiny room is on a map the size of ROUTE 15, and we're just in the bottom corner.
… What the fuck kind of slogan is that?
GRAVELER by Game Freak VOLTORB by Lichen GLOOM by Jogaklaa …Huh? What's that? I missed one?
{PLAYER} discovered a POKéMON SIGN!
FoF: Hey! Glad you remembered! Here's a present!
…Buuuuuuuut! Because you found me here, I'll tell you a secret!
Nope! There's only trash here.
Fun fact: Harry's Raticate starting at 1 HP is actually a bug! But! It's a bug I liked, so now it's a feature. I'm very good at programming.
Hey, you! Listen here! I got a great scam going. You want in? …Huh? You've heard this pitch before? Nonsense! Now come on. Are you in or not?
This map is a recreation of the sea cottage from Earthbound! That map is notable for being the origin of My Secret Life, Chapter 3
Death is an illusion.{PAUSE 10} And so are pants!
Damn, I sure hope so.
HEALING ROOM Give your POKéMON a full rest! Notice! This room is found to be violating the copyright of the other one. Please proceed with caution.
Well I regret to inform you that nothing else is tied to this event. Nothing but my increasingly-inane ramblings on.
Excuse me! You need a SANDWICH CASE to enter the SAFARI ZONE! Trust me, these rules make a lot of sense. Please come again!
Wait, how did I end up here? I was trying to find the GYM to visit my girlfriend…
Hiya! Thanks for clearing out the DMCA! Would you like to spend some time in the SAFARI ZONE?
(cutscene here)
Hey BOSS! Check out what I found!
{PLAYER} discovered a POKéMON SIGN!
SOPHOCLES: Hello! Welcome to FESTIVAL PLAZA! We're holding a festival where TRAINERS can meet with each other. Come, take a look around! In fact, if you have a couple hours to spare, I'll give you a tour!
BOAT FOR SALE Only ¥1,000,000!
This girl is all of us.
Looks like I didn't need any help after all. Sorry! Hope you're able to find someone else someday!
Hey! You can't just turn the power on! That's a violation of POKéMON SWORD and SHIELD! We can't have that!
Lovely! I hope you have a wonderful, non- infringing visit!
This is probably the most creative puzzle in the gym. You need to think about how every room connects to each other and remember what you've seen. …Or you could stumble into the answer by accident. Either works!
He will always be in our hearts.
SUSAN: …Or are you here for her?
I'd like to thank Paper Mario Sticker Star for the door puzzle. You're a shit-ass awful waste of a game, but that doesn't mean nothing in you has value.
Hey! Everything else you have is dead! This is a really obscure text box. Good job finding it!
The memorial broke.
I transferred schools from JHOTO when I moved to FUSHCIA CITY. I was never very good at langage arts. Writing class is the hardest! I hope CUBONE'S MOM can come in to help learn me…
I hid this guy's house by making the opening in the trees only be on screen if the player walks one step right of the Center door. So many players can't even be bothered to do that much, so it's straight up hidden in plain sight!
…Wait, no! This is just a regular GUN!
A pounded-in stump.
I love that I'm SKIRT now! Look what I can do!
… All my friends are dead.

* * * MOVE DESCRIPTIONS * * *

An attack move that works especially well on a foe that is switching out.
Damn I wiped to ROXANNE again
The user (magnet) performs very, very badly on stage.
The user spins an S around the foe. Savagely.
Surely FURY SWIPE will hit now.
Deals damage… eventually.
The energy it built using STOCKPILE is absorbed to restore HP.
Dummy
WAA!
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
The user wraps itself snug and tight, raising ATK and ACC.
Yup, that's his name.
Being supersonic is cool but I'm a little nervous…
If you throw someone over the moon, it should do more than 17 HP
The user wills its head onto the opponent.
The user kisses the foe with sweet cuteness that causes confusion.
Goon squad, assemble!
oh no there's more of them
UNUSED
Seriously these moves all suck but the puns are so fucking good
UNUSED
Crunchy water
The foe is charmed by the user's cute appeals, sharply cutting its ATTACK.
The worst best move of all time.
The user is added to the next game's regional POKéDEX
Don't forget the pickles!
The user produces a loud blast of thunder.
Yea, this attack breaks the ICE / PSYCHIC schtick. Sorry.
gottem
My Secret Life, chapter three I was neither a murder suspect, nor a target for an international
One level up from B Stinger!
Please do not apply hammers to dogs :(
A POISON attack so weak that even with double power it's still bad.
UNUSED
If I committed to the bit, this would have 30 base power.
UNUSED
UNUSED
This move is learned 2-5 times
fwoowoowoo ting ting ting ting ting ting
Wow I love minecraft
A mystical seed that changes the foe's ability to WONDER GUARD.
Did you know every normal attack in MELEE has an official name?
A big wave crashes down on the foe. Can also be used for crossing water.
The user attacks using the power it gets from being a horse.
The user delivers aid to the foe via air carrier.
The user dives underwater on the first turn and strikes next turn.
UNUSED
No, silver was second place. Gold wind :)
For some goddamn reason this move hits foes on the ceiling.
TLDR? Eat shit and die leafaggote
An obscuring cloud of smoke or ink reduces the foe's accuracy.
The user distracts the foe by bending a spoon. It may lower accuracy.
Me and my friends deciding what to watch for movie movie night.
Th_ us__ covers the tar__ _n ink, mak___ _ext il__ible.
A high volume of water is blasted at the foe under great pressure.
Slurp
The user howls to raise its spirit and boost its ATTACK stat.
That's how the split peas got split.
Completely negates the foe's efforts to heighten its ability to evade.
womp womp
an epic battle with Mega Zygarde where you catch it and it has its move…
Weakens ELECTRIC- type attacks while the user is in the battle.
Any battler that hears this faints in three turns unless it switches.
Bold and Brash: It's Splash.
Ah, excellent! BROCK should be very easy now!
Does a random amount of damage, and then crashes the game.
{ASTERISK}dog-themed magical girl sequence{ASTERISK}
(it gets boosted by BIG PECKS)
That's basically what AMOONGUSS is, no?
A 5-turn sandstorm that damages all types except ROCK, GROUND, and STEEL.
A ball that would be utterly broken if there was a day/night cycle.
A fast ball that always moves first.
Listen guys I promise we'll have DLC for X and Y.
A move that breaks BRICKS. Give it to a mother in need.
Where the archaeologists hang out after class.
Yup, there sure are two of 'em
Ah, finally! WING ATTACK!
The user delivers its item to the foe, damaging it.
The user hides itself in a statue. This move is learned 3 times.
Use the force, palm.
Another awful move but like c'mon, this pun is great
You don't need pants for the VICTORY DANCE!
This attack move grows more powerful the less the user likes its TRAINER.
“Crossroad Killing” in Japanese.
The user extends its shadow and attacks from behind.
An attack that can be used only while asleep. It may cause flinching.
Rantsona
The user randomly picks and uses a move of an allied POKéMON.
One third of funbro
The user strikes the foe with its hard , hitting 2-5 times
Stabs the target with a sharpened one. Has a high crit ratio.
THE BOOTS! THEY'RE HERE! UNDER THE FLOOR BOARDS!
The user creates and I before suddenly turning at the last second
Boosts the ATK and SP. ATK of PIKACHU when held.
It enrages the foe, making it incapable of using the same move successively.
The user has a certain aura of “sphere” about them.
The user plays Celia's Stupid Romhack.
Eliminates all stat changes among all POKéMON engaged in battle.
It has 40 PP because of BROCK.
Allows the user to CUTE down trees.
Strap on, Strap off
A pleasant melody is played to lull the foe into a deep sleep.
A move that tricks the foe into trading held items with the user.
The user hypnotizes itself into copying any stat change made by the foe.
Aww, I hate when I only get two learns…
Get it? Cuz it's running?
During your next turn, SCYTHER's SLASH attack's damage is 60.
You click this one first
An intense attack that also sharply reduces the user's SP. ATK stat.
uwu
A happy, sunshiny place to leave your POKéMON during the day!
The user is hit with a rhythmic punch that may leave it confused.
A punch thrown at blinding speed. It is certain to strike first.
Dire, Dire Docks was always my least favorite MARIO level.
What I had to do while calculating KENYA's weight.
The user's lovely shining coat protects it from harm.
Skyline Chili is delicious and y'all can fuckin fight me.
Sick hammer dude
Earth-shakingly delicious
Low-tech alarm clock
UNUSED
A mother's love overwhelms all opposition
Cotton-like spores cling to the foe, sharply reducing its SPEED stat.
Unfinished. Sorry!
It's bath time! Grab your rubber ducky!
A ground-shaking attack against all standing POKéMON. Its power varies.
I want my wife iron, tails.
The user fires fucking laser beams from its eyes, in gen 2.
Not to be confused with DEFROG, which removes reptiles.
The user gets frustrated by how weak this attack gets.
Skating rink
The foe is hit with a shock wave that always inflicts 4 HP damage.
The user falls in the Pit in Celia's Stupid Romhack.
The user has just enough SENSORY to get by.
The user smashes its shell to lighten its body and raise stats.
Yeah, lowers special defense. How helpful.
Before FRLG was released, this move was exclusive to METRONOME.
The user chucks a crab at the enemy.
The user steals from the foe, but only if they have a HEART SCALE.
Where'd LOST TOWER go? Well, it's got ghosts, so…
The user does emotional damage to the foe. This move can't miss.
The user creates a sturdy wall that sharply raises its DEFENSE stat.
Expertly crafted! Truly this cake was decorated by a master!
(it's vanilla)
Yes, I piss blades
A money-making implement is hurled at the foe.
The user gets in a car accident and commits negligent manslaughter.
Didn't you know? Trans girls can double jump.
The foe is attacked with sharp fangs. It may make the foe flinch.
Shuffle your hand into the deeeck, then draw seven cards.
The best high- power water move that isn't SURF or HYDRO PUMP.
(only usable if you've collected all eight CHAOS EMERALDS)
UNUSED
Good job guys, we made a signature move for our legendary!
An attack passed down from MOTHER to CHILD.
Spores are blasted in the foe's face or eyes.
Zing!
“Die Jet” is a way cooler name.
A chilling wind is used to attack. It also lowers the SPEED stat.
It's Gust or Bust!
The fun police
A POKé BALL that's literally only useful for like ten minutes
H! Do my bidding!
I could never beat WHITNEY as a kid…
A blast of light that cuts the foe's accuracy. It also illuminates caves.
Unfinished. Sorry!
No, you can't use it on trees.
Who the fuck knows what this one does.
The foe is hit with an intense flame. It may leave the target with a burn.
This edible ain't shit.
The signature move of a specific legendary POKéMON. Hmm, I wonder…
Not very sneaky…
It's too cold outside, so we're doing indoor recess.
Why, hello! I am MR. BONDING! Would you like to learn O POWERS?
An attack for three ENERGY. This move deals SPECIAL damage.
UNUSED
I hardly know 'er!
UNUSED
A mystical and powerful fire attack that may inflict a burn.
50% of 50% of the time, it works every time.
Mermaids don't have to tie their shoes, silly!
Dummy
Base Power 18+
UNUSED
A very, very fair move. Now featuring SERENE GRACE!
The user dances for the move, making itself faint.
You had it set to “M” for MINIMIZE when it should've been set to “W”
He takes his clothes off.
Hey, who stole our A?
A 2-turn move that hits on the 2nd turn. Use it to fly to any known town.
Silly!
The user creates the letter V into the foe's name.
Thanks, SINNOH. We def needed another normal HM.
The user slows the fuck down.
He makes meth or something idk
The user summons mieteors from the sky. This lowers the user's SP. ATK
Okay so maybe this one works like SCRATCH?
Like other ROCK- TYPE moves, this move certainly has an accuracy.
The user increases property value by destroying peoples' homes.
DON'T AWOO ¥350 PENALTY
UNUSED
The ball dives underwater and then attacks the next turn.
Okay I'll admit that it kinda looks like a butt.
It's like pretty fast (not extreme tho)
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
The user and the target become friends, lowering target's ATTACK.
A special-based priority move, 4x effective versus Stakataka.
Unusable unless you have the BADGE from MOSSDEEP CITY.
Bruce Willis was dead all along! …wait, wrong movie.
The higher the user's HP, the stronger this attack is.
Using G-Max Energy the user attacks. This move ignores stat boosts.
Reduces SPECIAL damage for the RIGHT side of the field.
Installs a new antivirus, but it just detects and deletes itself.
The significantly less successful cousin of the WATER SLIDE.
90% of the time it's about as useful as it normally is.
The user slashes once with a claw. The move is learned two to five times.
Protects the user and allows them to breathe underwater.
I got five aces! {ASTERISK}falls out of tree{ASTERISK}
FAIRY-flavored FIRE FANG.
If the user faints, this move deletes the PP of the move that finished it.
An extremely fair move, especially when combined with SERENE GRACE.
He'd rather have a buffalo take a diarrhea dump in his ear
Tourniquet
The user avoids controversy by changing color.
A burst of light injures the foe. It may also lower the foe's SP. DEF.
Allures the foe to reduce evasiveness. It also attracts wild POKéMON.
Oho, that was clever of you!
Mispronouncing “FACADE” as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
The user draws attention to itself, making foes attack only the user.
And now you're gonna play dead!
Congrats, gold! You wind :)
I'd like to note that Weird Al canonically fucked Pinkie Pie.
The reason that METEOR MASH is boosted by IRON FIST.
Banana? Cherries? Boring. Ready, Gary?
An attack with a high critical-hit ratio. It may also poison the foe.
No, I didn't buff it.
KANO's Mortal Kombat 1 Fatality, if the devleopers weren't pussies.
The user attacks with blades of ice. Has a high critical hit chance.
Absolute flailure.
An attack that may also cut DEFENSE. It can also smash cracked boulders.
The user whips up winds that raises the SPEED of all party members.
poof it ain't there no more
Using the fource, the user foursees that in four turns, 4.
The user bounces on the foe on the 2nd turn. It may paralyze the foe.
The user summons real-life actual normal fucking bees to attack.
The user is able to double jump, and magnetically draws in rings.
I can't believe they didn't hit with double the power yet.
The rate of affirmations per flight extremity.
Damn bro sorry to Shear that
A peculiar ray is shot at the foe. It may leave the foe confused.
UNUSED
The user copies the move last used by the foe for the rest of the battle.
Sharp spikes arev fired at the foe to strike two to five times.
A wobbly dance that confuses all the POKéMON in battle.
The user predicts the foe's action to ensure its next attack hits.
The user shows its exorbinant wealth and showers the foe in money.
The user drops its full body on the foe. It may leave the foe paralyzed.
Oatmeal Ring, it's Steel Wing.
The user performs a traditional Isukuti Drumming pattern.
Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome
Speedrun strats
The user uses all of its normal to attack the foe.
The user hurls two to five hard rocks at the foe to attack.
The foe is dropped into a fissure. The foe faints if it hits.
UNUSED
A poorly-made offbrand version of ROCK TOMB. Copyright pending
An attack that changes type depending on the user's location.
The foe is attacked with a strange leaf that cannot be evaded.
An all-natural paper cut.
A good way to get yourself stabbed in the face.
Fudge AND Mint? Sign me up!
UNUSED
The foe is hit with a hard, fast punch. It may also raise the user's ATTACK.
Oho, that was clever of you!
Mortal Kombat 2 Jax Fataility
User makes a bad first impression by punching the opponent.
AURORA BEAM? At this time of day? In this part of KANTO?
“This baby is a demon child!”
That's
The user unleashes a furry. (takes leash off)
Ah, excellent! BROCK should be very easy now!
The user digs deep to bring out the most terrifying creature of all.
The user Just Does It 2-5 times
Okay, gang! Let's SPIT UP!
Unfortunate doesn't begin to describe my series, this game rewards blind
A little texture never hurt!
The user KO's itself, dealing damage equal to its HP.
A nice beam that deals 69 damage.
The user makes a fiery charge at the foe. It may cause a burn.
Ghosts have such strong odors that a sniff allows you to punch them.
I made a baking soda volcano for my science fair project!
A cheap anime tactic to intice the horny viewers
Ensnares the foe with sticky string so it doesn't flee or switch out.
Would you like a DUBIOUS DISK?
The higher the user's HP, the more powerful this attack becomes.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
The sun blazes for five turns, powering up FIRE-type moves.
That last beam was okay, but this one's much meateor!
A kiss so boring it puts you to sleep.
A strong telekinetic attack. It may also lower the foe's SP. DEF stat.
The user bravely birds.
Indifferent cruelty of the universe vs indomitable GOLEM spirit.
UNUSED
The signature move of EXEGGCUTE. Surely it is not a waste of space.
Enables the user to evade all attacks. It may fail if used in succession.
The user switches out, passing along any stat changes to the new battler.
UNUSED
Just a little off the top, please.
A trap of spikes is laid around the foe's party to hurt foes switching in.
The evolved form of T-PAIN
Uh, oh! Looks like he had a little accident.
UNUSED
bonk
I'll give you something to REALLY cry about! {ASTERISK}global warming{ASTERISK}
I'd like to forget about the GEN I SPECIAL stat.
An electrically charged tackle that may also paralyze the foe.
UNUSED
Oh, no! Grandpa's dead!
UNUSED
The foe is sprayed with a cloud of toxic gas that may poison the foe.
The user encases the foe in a vat of tartar sauce.
Nudity is measured on a logarithmic scale. One more Nude is 10x nuder.
The foe is attacked with exhaust gases. It may also poison the foe.
Sir a second turn just hit the charge-up.
All party POKéMON join in the attack. The more allies, the more damage.
The foe is made to switch out with an ally. In the wild, the battle ends.
Surely THIS will be SPECIAL-based, right?
Why is this move so god damn mother fucking bad?
Look what these starters have to do to copy a fraction of our power!
The user unleashes a furry. (takes leash off)
A challenger approaches…
How is this thing punching, anyway?
College senior
The user runs at the foe very, very, very, very, very, very slowly.
Ah, excellent! BROCK should be very easy now!
It's got bolts
A cloud of toxic dust is scattered. It may poison the foe.
How the fuck do you rend something with your gills?
The user walks reeeeeeeeeally far.
Weakens FIRE-type attacks while the user is in the battle.
The user tries to recruit the party to sell essential oils.
Damn I can't believe they didn't buff it yet.
More like a pile of rocks.
The user remembers how it feels to throw a punch.
You click this one first
The user unleashes a furry. (takes leash off)
Prevents foes from using any move that is also known by the user.
Hey, look! The wall's glowing!
Why the fuck is the base power 18?
Hi HUNGRY! I'm DAD!
Ah, finally a move that isn't just BARRAGE!
An intense attack that also sharply reduces the user's SP. ATK stat.
UNUSED
A sinister, bluish white flame is shot at the foe to inflict a burn.
The foe is hit with a shockwave dealing 40 damage 2-5 times.
UNUSED
The user gets very mad online and writes an essay about it.
The foe is raked with sharp claws or teeth two to five times.
UNUSED
The user throws a bone that hits the foe once, then once again on return.
UNUSED
UNUSED
HEY, DOWN THERE! DID YOU JUST LOOK AT ME?
A soothing bell chimes to heal the status problems of all allies.
You know the BOSTON MOLASSES FLOOD? Yeah kinda like that.
The B stands for Be
The foe is punched with an icy fist. It may leave the foe frozen.
Between this and U-TURN, it seems BUG TYPES get all the letter moves.
Garlic breath
This is a robbery! Put the register in the bag!
The user slashes once with a claw. The move is learned two to five times.
UNUSED
Sounds like something out of a Doggy Daycare
The user attacks with one of its heads. Fails if it doesn't have one.
An elite group dedicated to eraticating all shadows!
The user attacks the foe once for each member of its polycule.
That's right!
An ear-splitting screech is emitted to sharply reduce the foe's DEFENSE.
It protects the user's party from all status problems for five turns.
I'm collecting all the pronouns so I can win at gender.
For what reason is this attack so extraordinarily friggin' awful?
The user petal dances about for two to three turns and gets confused.
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
In 2 turns, the user predicts the existence of snow.
Cock sauce.
It's gonna be a bright (bright!) bright - - - Sunshine-y DAD!
The user shows off new technology by smoothing off its rough edges.
The user heals by deciding to stop being a FLYING-TYPE.
An attack using thorny arms. It may make the foe flinch.
Hey! That wasn't on the sandwich!
Makes the foe use the move it last used repeatedly for two to six turns.
By the 9 Divines, Yeahsault!!
The user expresses its desire to bond for life.
Blood exposed to x-rays from the moon became this MOVE.
Technically it's COMET PUNCH. This one's actually about comets tho
Ah yes, finally a strong DRAGON- TYPE move! …What's that?
A vicious twister attacks the foe. It may make the foe flinch.
bang
The foe is attacked with an odd, hot energy wave that varies in intensity.
Contrary to popular belief, water isn't actually a good conductor.
The user strikes the foe with a bone in hand two to five times.
What your GPS loves telling you after you make a wrong turn.
Summoning forth the power of the stars, the user clicks BARRAGE.
A low, tripping kick that can cause the foe to flinch. Just like Gen 1!
Damn I wish it was Vine Whip
The user channels its rage to deal a prime number of damage.
UNUSED
Astonishing.
A move that boosts the power of the ally's attack in a battle.
The foe is trapped in an intense spiral of fire that rages two to five turns.
Yep. Water sure is wet.
A fierce bite that always lowers DEFENSE by two stages.
Let's get brunch! It's Crunch!
It goes right to your thighs! …And then you blow up!
Hyper! Hyper!
Shuffle your hand into the deck, then draw seven cards.
X-Rays from the moon beam down on the user, healing it of status.
I was neither a murder suspect, nor a target for an international spy organisation. But I drove a car
How good would each tier of buffs be in the UBERS metagame?
Only pussies use status moves
Tbh, that's the correct response to being on 4chan.
GTFO, E
I'll give you something to REALLY cry about! {ASTERISK}crashes economy{ASTERISK}
Why is this rock so god damn mother fucking rad?
As opposed to the fake shit they got at the dollar store.
The user flips and turns the opposing POKéMON upside-down.
Another legendary quartet with a shitty-ass signature move.
An electric blast is fired like a cannon to inflict damage and paralyze.
Hmm, that's not quite it either…
Yo check out these sick fidget spinner tricks!
A powerful move that targets the foe's physical defense.
The user alters its cells to liquefy itself and sharply raise DEFENSE.
Keep the change
The user ATTACKS using some SAND.
The user shows that it's an ally, and then switches.
The user's tail emits a FLASH that can light up the dark.
Where the singularists hang out after class.
This is what clowns be thinkin before throwing a pie at a face
Uh, yeah! I'm pretty sure that's what the move is called.
The way I see it, KYOGRE is surrounded.
The user channels the power of the moon to deliver an attack.
User follows the Eightfold Path and transends suffering.
Bone-in wings are thrown at the foe, once going in and once coming back.
90% of the time, it's about as good as GAME FREAK intended.
When used with WATER PLEDGE, will create a RAINBOW.
The user hides itself in a statue. This move is learned 3 times.
GEN 6 decided to inexplicably make this move FAIRY-TYPE.
The user attacks with a priceless antique from the MING DYNASTY.
The user draws attention to itself, making foes attack only the user.
The user sheds its to create a SUBSTITUTE.
The user protects itself with an absolutely bullshit hitbox.
Instantly kills the run
Oops, dropped a 0 on that Accuracy.
Remember in 2011 when Arrows in the Knee was the peak of comedy?
Oho, that was clever of you!
Hmm, guess it's not ICE PUNCH. Deals PHYSICAL damage.
The foe is licked and hit with a long tongue. It may also paralyze.
The foe's father is assassinated, leading to their tragic backstory.
Fires a psychicy miem that may confuse the foe.
Ah, excellent! FALKNER should be very easy now!
Comets from the sky are summoned onto the target. Uh, they fly.
UNUSED
Ah excellent, a FAIRY-TYPE move! I'm sure there's no loopholes here
{ASTERISK}Communism voice{ASTERISK} OUR Happy >:)
Oh, heck it's peck
Yeah, why would something like this be BUG type?
The user eats an enemy and spits it out at another, bypassing PROTECT
Tbh, one of the worst Final Smashes.
Trouble keeps you runnin' faster- Save the planet from disaster-
thunderblunder77
The user throws its one, hitting once coming and then
It was a graveyard bash!
The foe is trapped in a fast, vicious whirlpool for two to five turns.
Two heads are better than one.
Swaps an opposing HEART for a different one.
Sounds like the title of an edgy PLAYSTATION 2 game.
Exceptionally fatherful.
An attack that is boosted if user is burned, poisoned, or paralyzed.
At least this one makes sense to be water type.
ouch
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
Finally, a DARK move that actually makes sense doing SPECIAL damage!
The user channels the spirit of a whiny fourteen year old.
Well now it's just getting absurd.
Does anyone know what this move actually does?
This is like the third time I've made this joke.
There wasn't a move that quite fit “PHYSICAL EDUCATION”.
The user is slightly confused as to who they're supposed to hit.
Hey guys do you think we nerfed this move enough? …No? Okay.
The user and itself put aside their differences for an attack
A sleeping foe is shown a nightmare that inflicts some damage every turn.
That's what you get for eating raw onions.
Why, hello! Would you like this lovely SUPER ROD?
You should visit “Hypothetical Hurricanes .fandom.com”
I can't wait to break the TCG with SCYTHER instead!
The user copies the foe's typing.
The user smacks the foe using its lower hands.
boom
The user wags its tail cutely, making the foe lower its ATTACK stat.
When used with FIRE PLEDGE, will create a RAINBOW.
The user converts its rage into energy expressed through its nose.
The signature move of EXEGGCUTE. Surely it is not a waste of space.
Reflects back the foe's LEECH SEED and any status- damaging move.
While you were partying, I studied the BLADE.
An attack move that gains in intensity if the target has hurt the user.
Lowers the foe's PP. iykyk
The foe is taunted into a rage that allows it to use only attack moves.
The signature catchphrase of the potato-themed super hero.
The foe is attacked with a shower of small, easily thrown rocks.
A move that badly poisons the foe. Its poison damage worsens every turn.
The user is struggling while being a bug.
The user brings forth the power of the drought to attack.
“Let's get going” said the officer. “No, no! We can't!”
Rends the foe with a frosty blade. Power is boosted in ELECTRIC TERRAIN
Watch HUNGER GAMES in HIGH DEFINITION 480p! Download NOW!
A quick flurry of straight-arm punches that hit two to five times.
Excuse me! You looked at me, didn't you?
C'mon… You're so close to figuring it out-!
Most players will get this after they can get FIRE moves, but eh.
The user REPEATS a stale, overdone joke.
Yup. Nine of 'em.
UNUSED
Hey, where'd this 0 come from?
uwu
I can't wait to see my friends at the park!
Smoothie
The user creates a decoy using one- quarter of its full HP.
A simultaneous 3-beam attack that may paralyze, burn, or confuse the foe.
Surely THIS will be SPECIAL-based, right?
The user stiffens to ATTRACT a mate.
Right about now it's time to rock with the biggidy Buck Bumble
This POKéMON might be useful if you stick it on a letter.
Using the move NIGHT SHADE as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
The user maximizes its ATTACK stat at the cost of half its full HP.
509197D3 542975F4 78DA95DF 44018CB4
A move whose power increases the more EEVEE loves its trainer
Is the idea that they're quivering while dancing?
UNUSED
A move that lets you learn the move TM07
The yellow color
The kind of friend you can invite over to play!
Late stage power creep.
Some call it an Octothorpe.
A basic attack. It can be used to cut down thin trees and grass.
The user brings out the sword that it keeps secret and attacks.
Those old guys were dead
Across two turns, it's almost twice as strong as Vine Whip!
The user attacks with an uppercut thrown skywards with force.
The signature move of EXEGGCUTE. Surely it is not a waste of space.
The user wields the sword which it views as sacred and attacks.
The opposite of PLAY ROUGH.
It's half as good as ABSORB, two to five times.
Frightens the foe with a scary face to sharply reduce its SPEED.
No, I'm not talking about MY breath.
Filet-o-Fish
The user throws a punch from the shadows. It cannot be evaded.
A flurry of down hits the foe. It may also lower the foe's SP. ATK.
Guaranteed to hit if you're 70 fucking levels higher than them.
The user jumps up high, then kicks. If it misses, the user hurts itself.
Rock me mama like a wagon wheel, Rock me mama any way you feel
UNUSED
Throw the easel at 'em
A wall of light cuts damage from SP. ATK attacks for five turns.
UNUSED
The foe is blasted with a blizzard. It may freeze the foe solid.
The user adds its HP to the foe's HP, then equally shares the total HP.
Have you heard about Pluto?
Oops, that's not quite the right move.
tiptoe
A move which will certainly be SUPER EFFECTIVE on MAGNEMITE.
Not much goin' on in there
WARNING! Back sprites are all slightly fucked up.
An attack that may take the foe's held item if the user isn't holding one.
The user sells a POKé DOLL in Celia's Stupid Romhack
Oh my god! He even gets a FIRE-TYPE move?
If CONVERSION is so good, why is there no CONVERSION2?
The user goes and experiences a new dimension of reality.
One of the moves of all time.
An ancient power is used to attack. It may also raise all the user's stats.
Salts. S-A-L-T-S. Salts.
uhhh
A two-part attack. Technically.
UNUSED
The user hardens its body's surface to sharply raise its DEFENSE stat.
To spread butter, it's best if your knife is kept at a 35 degree angle.
Remember the fucking sun on teletubbies?
Get dizzy!
The shittier, forgotten PARADOX form of ARBOK.
Protects the user from all attacks and poisons foes on contact.
The user takes a deep breath and focuses to quarter critical-hit ratio.
A quick kick from a rolling spin. It may make the foe flinch.
Anyone notice how this move only has one N?
This move copies the move last used by the foe, then disappears.
The user is deeply, deeply jealous of something.
An all-out attack that becomes more powerful the less HP the user has.
The user counters the move last used by the foe with the same move.
An attack that is used only if there is no PP. It also hurts the user.
Look I know this move is worthless but can we please appreciate the pun
Drag on deez nuts
Two turns after this move is used, the foe is attacked psychically.
Ending the song with an F7 chord
The foe is blasted with a psychic storm that may confuse it.
Love at first bite
A powerful attack, but it also lowers the user's ATTACK and DEFENSE stats.
The user runs at the foe very, very, very, very, very, very slowly.
The user copies the signature move of cats.
The little top part
The user is fully protected by a bullshit hitbox.
Sadly this move is unimplemented.
DARK is a SPECIAL-based type for some fucking reason.
The user eats a RED SHELL and spits out fire.
A mystic, powerful dance to increase ATTACK and SPEED. FLYING style.
The foe is punched with a wet fist. Deals PHYSICAL damage.
A corporate ploy to remove content from the INTERNET for profit.
Huge, sharp claws hook and slash the foe. Uh, with FLYING.
Readers Beware! You're in for a GLARE!
Sharp, huge claws hook and slash the foe quickly and with great power.
The user flies around and delivers the newspaper.
The user meditates to awaken its power and raise its ATTACK stat.
That's not very kind of you.
Protects the user from attacks and damages foes who make contact.
Studying the history of 1940's JAPAN.
I'll show you what happens when I make a recipe I don't know!
I store potassium cyanide inside my mouth.
I only wanted a little off the top…
The user swings its as if it were a wave in a storm.
Bark bark bark, Bark bark-barrage Bark bark bark, Bark bark-barrage
The user creates 360 degrees of fire all around.
Put your hands in the air!
The bottom bun, otherwise known as the butt.
The foe is exposed to a sinister ray that triggers confusion.
Your opponent flips a coin. If tails, the attack does no damage.
The ally party is protected by a mist that prevents stat reductions.
Sonic ran so fast to the bus and he got on the bus after Tails.
Wait, does TORNADUS even have feet?
Hits once before the foe, then once more at the end of the turn.
Hey!
(and most of it is spam anyway)
Hey wait a minute…
Ah, excellent! fPMd4{UP_ARROW}K should be very easy now!
A 5-turn rolling attack that becomes stronger each time it rolls.
The user FAINTS, and then attacks.
Okay, so maybe this one won't just be BARRAGE again?
The foe is hit with double chops. It has a high critical-hit ratio.
I hear that's bad for the environment.
A storm of sharp leaves is whipped up. Lowers the user's SP. ATK.
The user ones its claws to boost its ATTACK.
You shall be oneished for your transgressions.
A move learned only by POKéMON ready for the final evolution.
Ah, lovely! A FIRE move!
The user pulls energy from its held Z-Crystal to boost its power.
Ink is blasted in the foe's face and eyes.
In the beginning, GOD created the heavens and the earth.
Trail blaze it
Yeah, all nine of its wings.
The user summons real-life actual normal fucking bees to a.
The user gives its held item to the foe. How thoughtful!
Surely if we put more flashing lights, a user will click it.
Okay I'll admit that it kinda looks like a butt.
Whether the weather will weather what we weather, ball.
The user cuts about for 2-5 turns.
The user tries very hard to attack.
The user outrages about for two to three turns, then becomes confused.
The yellow color
The user jumps in the air and slams down. Can pound STUMPS.
Better hope it doesn't phantom.
The user sends its foe blasting off again!
Nonbinary person but like, they kick puppies.
An attack that may take the foe's held item if the user isn't holding one.
UNUSED
bb
Be woke, be cool. A calm spirit is smarter.
Hypnotic suggestion is used to make the foe fall into a deep sleep.
The user can shoot itself through the air to gain distance.
UNUSED
Sprinkle some R's over him
All the coverage you'll ever need, all in one place! What a deal!
damn
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
Your younger brother's favorite move.
I wish I had HP
A strong jumping knee kick. If it misses, the user is hurt.
MY MUSTACHE HAS DEEMED THAT YOU GET MY WARIO STEAM!
The user and the foe get TELEPORTED into a wall somewhere.
I was asked to include reference to CARBINK in this game.
Half of Gen 1's BUG-TYPE moves.
Cover your eyes!
500 million years of evolution leads to one single point
The user stiffens to ATTRACT a mate.
Looks like she bred this from a PICHU!
The user raises its SP. ATK in the 1st turn, then attacks in the 2nd turn.
The user growls in a cute way, making the foe lower its DEFENSE stat.
A consecutive 3-hit attack. I guess it's like kicking based?
The user locks on to the foe, making the next move sure to hit.
I didn't say “FIRE” I said “FUCK!”
Electrode, Diglett, Nidoran, Mankey…
The user creates a decoy using one- quarter of its full HP.
The signature move of EXEGGCUTE. Surely it is not a waste of space.
Me writing a restaurant review of McDonald's
mafia shakedown
Most players will get this after they can get FIRE moves, but eh.
Steals the effects of the foe's healing or status- changing move.
The user boosts itself up just as much as it can manage.
Ah excellent, finally a powerful FLYING-TYPE move. …Wait, what's that?
The unfortunate remains of a minefield.
The user performs the traditional Paldea Duck Dance to raise its speed.
The foe is attacked with sharp claws. It may also lower the foe's DEFENSE.
Restores the user's HP. The amount of HP regained varies with the weather.
The user declares bankruptcy, and its assets get liquidated.
Ah, excellent! fPMd4{UP_ARROW}K should be very easy now!
Heals the user by up to half its full HP. It can be used to heal an ally.
“And so I ran, tail tucked between my legs, and- oh, not like that?”
N c i e !
I hear that this stuff is banned in PALDEA
What a beautiful singing voice!
Oh god no this can't be happening
The user lights itself on fire, destroying its held BERRY.
Let's finally give Al-Khwarizmi some credit for the quadratic formula.
Stop on your right foot - Don't forget it!
The foe is punched with an electrified fist. Deals PHYSICAL damage.
git good
The user attacks with a beautiful blu flame.
Double take thrie times!
Pirates after witnessing Jesus walking on water towards them.
Basketball form
The move misses, unless it misses, in which case it hits.
Not to be confused with BONEMERANCH. That one's sauce.
Fire is scary! Keep an adult nearby and don't play with matches
Otherwise known as curtains.
The user wags its cutely, making the foe lower its ATTACK stat.
It's quite heavy, actually.
The user slashes once with a claw. The move is learned two to five times.
Not much, what's up with you?
Game Freak needs to learn what “Double” means.
Wow! I can't wait to learn SPIT UP and SWALLOW!
The user bravely births.
Contained within TM28. Lays stones that hurt the foe upon switching in.
The user hits once for each CHERRY attached to its body.
The most CANADIAN attack in the franchise.
A critical hit!
Absorbs half the damage it inflicted on a sleeping foe to restore HP.
In the future, comedy will be randomly generated!
Hmm… Is that right… {ASTERISK}moves left{ASTERISK}
A crashing PSYCICLE with a chance to flinch.
A hailstorm lasting five turns damages all POKéMON except the ICE-type.
UNUSED
Look what the GRASS starters need to do for half our power!
UNUSED
gotta go fast
(that meme with the bald guys putting their hand on the guy's shoulder)
The user attacks, then switches, then attacks, then switches.
Slightly more casual than SKETCH.
Switch your active POKéMON with one of your benched POKéMON.
You got a SMASH BALL! Time for your FINAL SMASH!
Steppin on the bleach do DO do DO Steppin on the bleach do DO do DO
UNUSED
For a few turns, it prevents the foe from using the move it last used.
UNUSED
We lookin' fishy tonight y'all
The user's BADGE BOOST stats get recalculated post-modification
Makes the user attack after the foe. In return, it will not miss.
The user eats its cereal by pouring in the milk first.
The opposite of PLAY NICE.
fucking bullshit
Baguette attack!
UNUSED
This move is learned 2-5 times
Overworked and poor, but seeing students grow is its own reward.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22…
Damn bro sorry to hear that
An extremely fast attack against one target. It can't be evaded.
UNUSED
The user waggles a finger and uses a move at random. But, like, bad.
Drags the foes into total darkness, inducing Sleep.
Hmm, I feel like that's spelled wrong.
The user attacks with both of its wings, hitting twice.
The user makes an exceptionally bizarre face.
UNUSED
Flattery is used to confuse the foe, but its SP. ATK also rises.
Dummy
A voice that lures in all AL's nearby
An attack that hits on the 2nd turn. Can also be used to exit dungeons.
Pretty dank bro
Mispronouncing “FACADE” as PROF. OAK's POKéMON.
Just like VITAL THROW, this move never misses!
You probably shouldn't eat shovels, no.
UNUSED
The user reduces its polygon count to sharpen edges and raise ATTACK.
I wonder which move this could be
Don'tcha know? Robots are fast!
This is my OC. He's like normal Lloyd but he's got backstory.
Every time GRIMER uses SLUDGE, it gets a little bit smaller.
How slow can you bro?
A spray of bubbles hits the foe. It may lower the foe's SPEED stat.
The user unleashes a fury of FURY ATTACKS on the foe.
A bright burst of light that can break through any SHADOW.
Hey! No Ice Cream? Guess I'm gonna have to use something else!
An attack that frees the user from BIND, WRAP, LEECH SEED, and SPIKES.
Have you tried wearing a helmet?
The user attacks in an uproar that prevents sleep for two to five turns.
Aaaaand there goes MISTY.
BUDEW was somehow the most busted card ever.
Oh no he's got a knife!
An attack that grows stronger on each successive hit.
The user attacks with all of its wings, hitting five times.
He is neutral about these matters.
War. War never changes.
yup
Big SHOOT.
Chatting with your friends at the end of the school day.
Closely related to its cousin: SCREWDRIVER BEAK.
Brain blast!
Tickle tickle
UNUSED
A move for a POKéMON that's specialized for HMs.
Those old guys were dead.
The user charges with its long, luscious locks.
Emerald Kaizo taught me to give this 1 PP.
BABA is WIN.
global.h
A retaliation move that pays back the foe's special attack double.
Remember when BRAWL added tripping?
Oh, wow! A double-decker!
Sounds dusty
The usuw wests up aftuw a difficult wound of wombat.
The user slaps the foe one time for each TAIL it has.
The user bros the fuck down.
“AFRO SMASH” is so much cooler of a name.
The user relaxes and lightens its body to sharply boost its SPEED.
The user chucks a BROCK at the foe.
The user throws with all the power of being a circle.
Blades of wind hit the foe on the 2nd turn. It has a high critical-hit ratio.
An attack that varies in type and intensity depending on the user.
Always melt your chocolate over a double boiler.
UNUSED
I'm gonna make your pronouns WAS/WERE.
i'm trying really hard okay
A rapid jolt of electricity strikes the foe. It can't be evaded.
The user delivers bad news to the foe, lowering its SP. ATK.
An attack that hits on the 2nd turn. Can also be used to exit dungeons.
Character arc
The user takes cash out of its bank account.
UNUSED
Yes! I love it when you get all five learns!
A long body or vines are used to wrap the foe for two to five turns.
The user punches while being a jet.
The oil industry be like
The foe is scorched with intense flames. The foe may suffer a burn.
¥200 for a fresh slice of bread
The foe is made to laugh, reducing its ATTACK and DEFENSE stats.
{ASTERISK}aggressively loud and obnoxious guitar riff{ASTERISK}
Enables the user to evade all attacks. It may fail if used in succession.
constants/moves.h
The most meta- impactful jank in POKéMON history.
Holy crap! Mud-slap!
Tasty!
The user thrashes about for two to three turns, then becomes confused.
UNUSED
That steak's so raw, it's still mooing!
UNUSED
Anyone actually know what “Kowtow” means?
No, smog makes it smoggy not clear.
60
“What else does SOLACEON have?” “Uhh… it's got grass?”
A heavy rain falls for five turns, powering up WATER- type moves.
The user lays roots that restore HP on every turn. It can't switch out.
Ah, lovely! A FIRE move!
The user hits the foe from up close. As opposed to doing so from afar.
When they finally add SPACE-TYPE, this is the first move to change.
Revives a fainted party {PKMN} and restores half of its HP.
Wow I sure do love getting this move after GYM fucking 8.
UNUSED
UNUSED
The foe is slashed with claws, etc. It has a high critical-hit ratio.
Remember when MINIMIZE used to make your sprite super small?
The user spews inane nonsense at the foe, always CONFUSING it.
Dummy
Finish it off with FALSE SWIPE!
He is neutral about these matters.
Technically legal as far as the DMCA are concerned
Have fun grinding!
Hey, at least it's not Vine Whip!
nice
UNUSED
A seed is planted on the foe to steal some HP for the user on every turn.
The user attacks by being god
Self-cannibalism
UNUSED
The user tells a story, but leaves out the happily ever after!
Hypnotic suggestion is used to make the foe fall into a deep sleep.
Nothing happens.
The user draws its last pathetic card.
An elite group dedicated to eraticating all shadows!
The user produces a large blast of lightning.
Ah, excellent! BROCK should be very easy now!
A cutely executed attack that also steals the foe's hold item.
A three-part attack, with all the power of a one-part attack.
By your powers combined I am CAPTAIN EARTH. ...wait
A powerful move that gets an additional boost in ICY TERRAIN.
The user employs its psychic power to swap abilities with the foe.
What the fuck? It's Pluck.
dragon pulse move desc
The user plays Celia's Stupid Romhack.
My Secret Dive, chapter three. I was neither a murder suspect nor a target for an
UNUSED
An attack with a steel-hard . It may lower the foe's DEFENSE stat.
Yea I buffed it
UNUSED

The foe is bound with strings shot from the mouth to reduce its SPEED.
Awakens when DRAIN holds the DRAINITE.
The user chucks all of its children at the foe.
This move is learned 2-5 times
You can churn better after adding Malicious Moon Salt!
A reckless, life- risking tackle that also hurts the user a little.
Fun fact! This is the last move I wrote a description for!
Sharp icicles are fired at the foe. It strikes two to five times.
As opposed to dat charge
The user smacks the foe using its upper hands.
fucking worthless
The user cooks the books to report lesser income to the IRS.
Crush the garlic cloves in a mortar and pestle and drizzle in oil.
OWO
This is what grandpa was doing in his younger years.
The user's code get corrupted and becomes the species RHYDON.
UNUSED
The user licks about for two to three turns, then becomes confused.
Not again!
Psychic spears are fired at the foe. It strikes two to five times.
This was really really funny back in 2008
Hard, pointed, and sharp claws rake the foe.
Modern POKéMON game tutorials.
Why is this type so god damn mother fuckin DAD?
An attack that may give a special description based on the terrain.
The foe is trapped inside a painful sandstorm for two to five turns.
A severely damaging attack that makes the user rest on the next turn.
Everyone! Let's kick!
While asleep, the user randomly uses one of the moves it knows.
A self-healing move that cures the user of a poisoning, burn, or paralysis.
UNUSED
Readers beware! You're in for a SWEAR!
The ally part is protected by a mister that prevents stat reduction.
UNUSED
Get it? It's like a branch mine?
I matched GAME FREAK's vision and ensured it's weaker than POUND
UNUSED
Not to be confused with “HEARING SHOT”.
ow
Electrifies the foe, making its next move Electric-type.
Damn that's grimey.
Dual wielding spoons for maximal cearal consumption.
The user fires BROCKS at the foe, hitting 2-5 times.
No, sound moves don't go through SUBSTITUTE.
Blasts the foe with a snowy gust. It may cause freezing.
“Light That Burns Your Eyes”
A mystic, powerful dance that boosts the user's ATTACK and SPEED stats.
The foe is made to switch out with an ally. In the wild, the battle ends.
yay
UNUSED
A signature move that's better than POISON FANG! (technically)
The user CAFEINTS, and then attacks.
Of all the utensils, you'd think a spoon would be the worst for hitting people.
Oh, no! Grandpas're dead!
The second half of the two-part FEAR combo.
I hope your POKéMON get hurt again!
V
The user performs the most powerful technique in the POKéMON anime.
An electric shock attack that may also leave the foe paralyzed.
Reverse allowance
Yeah, his head just does that.
At this juncture, we puncture
Do a loop-de-loop and pull! And your shoes are lookin' cool!
A BALL that works epecially well on POKéMON who cheat at MINECRAFT.
Freeze-dried cheese fries!
The user cuts ahead of the foe to steal their attack.
UNUSED
The user starts a combo, letting its REST bypass enemy immunities.
A move that makes the foe confused, but also sharply raises its ATTACK.
A move that cuts 2 to 5 PP from the move last used by the foe.
Blades of wind hit the foe on the 2nd turn. It has a high critical-hit ratio.
WINGS are half off!
I've got my eyes on you… {ASTERISK}randomly bombs civilians{ASTERISK}
Sorry, we're out of SENSORY.
The user channels its shape to attack.
It's only 20KB. How bad could it be?
What the fuckin commercials for LUNCHABLES always looked like
Perform this attack for one FIGHTING ENERGY.
Now keep the change!
I stand corrected
The user raises its DEFENSE in the 1st turn, then attacks in the 2nd turn.
The foe is slapped repeatedly, back and forth, two to five times.
The user's emits a light that sharply raises SP. ATK.
“What else does SOLACEON have?” “Uhh… it's got grass?”
Incoming dental work.
Delete this to improve your system performance.
A prehistoric move with a chance to flinch all the user's stats.
This song is a relic of the people.
UNUSED
An attack with weedly arms. Can make the target flinch.
An extremely fair move, especially when combined with SERENE GRACE.
The user spins at the foe, destroying ICE TERRAIN.
A self-healing move that restores HP by up to half of the user's maximum HP.
Where BROCK goes after he dies.
Shuffle your hand into the deeeeck, then draw seven cards.
Fast Air Rushes Towards
Ah excellent, a FIRE-TYPE move! I'm sure there's no loopholes here
A move that exists.
Huge, impressive pincers grip and squeeze the foe.
Damn bro sorry to hear that
UNUSED
The foe is attacked with ultimate cold that causes fainting if it hits.
fun sized
The foe is clamped and squeezed by the user's shell for two to five turns.
An Up B so bad you can't even fucking recover with it.
Dummy
Oops. I hate when you misspell the move and get the wrong one…
Dummy
Y'see, things ain't so easy in these parts. It gets dark, fast.
The user CAFEINTS, and then attacks.
Hits once before the foe, then once more at the end of the turn.
Damn right she will
(No, this doesn't actually disable abilities in this hack.)
UNUSED
Otherwise known as WING ATTACK.
(I don't actually know where tf Tehrander is located)
The user deals damage and gives itself a major concussion.
Not quite as strong as just regular FLASH, sadly.
Sounds messy.
Three wingbeats for the price of one.
The user raises in speed each time “BEE” appears on screen.
Just hit him a little bit. Nothing too serious.
The user gets very excited and causes itself to faint.
A powerful attack which ignores the foe's ABILITY.
There's a whole lot of land, and it's very angry with you.
UNUSED
Ah shoot, the TV is on the fritz again.
{PLAYER} What are you doing out here?
The foe is struck with a lot of water expelled from the mouth.
Has anybody in all of human history EVER wanted these?
Ink is blasted in the foe's face or eyes to damage and lower accuracy.
The user attacks with sharp fangs and halves the foe's HP.
